Abatements: A term referring to the refund of previously paid prop- erty taxes due to the over-valuation of property.

Accrual Basis: The basis of accounting under which revenues are re- corded when earned and expenditures are recorded as soon as they result in liabilities for benefits received.

Accrued Interest: Interest accrued on a bond or other fixed income security since the last interest payment was made. At the time of a sale, the buyer of a bond pays the market price plus accrued inter- est to the seller. Exceptions are bonds that are in default (termed to be ‘trading flat’). Accrued interest is calculated by multiplying the coupon rate by the number of days that have elapsed since the last payment.

Adjusted Gross Income (AGI): Total income from all taxable sourc- es less certain expenses incurred in earning that income.

Adopted Budget: Refers to the budget amounts as originally approved by the county’s legislative body.

Ad Valorem Tax: A tax based on the value of taxable property. Ad valorem is a Latin term meaning “according to value.”

Advance Refunding Bonds: Bonds that are issued to refund an out- standing issue before its natural maturity date. Proceeds from the advance refunding bonds are invested in U.S. Treasury Bonds or other authorized securities, and are used to pay interest and princi- pal on the bonds that were refunded until they are called or reach maturity.

Alternative Minimum Tax: The tax liability calculated by an alter- native set of rules designed to force individuals with high levels of preference income to incur at least some tax liability.

Amended Budget: A budget that includes changes to the adopted budget that have been approved by the county’s legislative body. Also referred to as a revised budget.

Amortization: The gradual reduction of bonded debt according to a specific schedule of payment times and amounts.

Appropriation: Authority to spend money within a specified dollar limit for an approved program or project during the fiscal year.

Arbitrage: With respect to the issuance of municipal bonds, arbitrage usually refers to the difference between the interest paid on the bonds issued and the interested earned by investing the bond pro- ceeds in other securities. Arbitrage profits are permitted on bond proceeds for various temporary periods after issuance of municipal bonds. Internal Revenue Service regulations govern arbitrage of municipal bond proceeds.

Assessable Base: The value of all real and personal property in the county used as a basis for levying taxes. Tax-exempt property is excluded from the assessable base.

Assessed Value: The value a jurisdiction assigns to a property for tax purposes. Assessed value is less than market value.

Assessment Ratio: The ratio of a property’s assessed value to its mar- ket value.

Assessment Bonds: Bonds secured by a direct fixed lien(s) on assessed properties to finance the acquisition and construction of local im- provements.

Audit: An examination of evidence, including records, facilities, in- ventories, systems, etc., to discover or verify desired information. A written report of findings will normally result, and findings will generally be based on investigation of a sample of agency opera- tions.

Average Life: The average length of time that an issue of bonds is ex- pected to be outstanding. The total number of bond years divided by the total number of bonds.

Balance Sheet: A statement of the financial position of an entity that presents the value of its assets, liabilities, and equities on a speci- fied date.

Balloon Maturity: A bond issue with substantially more late maturi- ties than early maturities. Some or all of the late maturities are often callable to allow for early redemption.

Bank Qualification: Up to $10,000,000 in public purpose bonds of a given issuer may be designated as “qualified tax exempt obliga-

Bid: A formal, binding document used to obtain pricing from vendors for a specific period of time. It contains complete specifications of the goods or services requested by the county. A bid also includes payment terms, delivery requirements, and other conditions that define the scope of the purchase. Bids are used to establish county contracts for products or services or for one-time purchases of high- dollar items (usually over $1,000).

Block Grant: A type of grant given primarily to a general-purpose government unit in accordance with a statutory formula. Such grants can be used for a variety of activities within a broad func- tional area.

Bond: A bond is a written promise to repay borrowed money on a definite schedule and usually at a fixed rate of interest for the life of the bond. State and local governments repay this debt with taxes, fees, or other sources of governmental revenue. Since most govern- mental bonds are tax-exempt, bondholders are generally willing to accept a correspondingly lower rate of return on their investment than they would expect on a comparable commercial bond. Bond financing, therefore, can often provide state and local govern- ments with low-interest capital. Some state and local governments are required by law to seek voter approval, for certain types of bond issues.

Bond Anticipation Notes: Interim short-term tax-exempt obligations used to provide funds for construction or completion of an enter- prise. The proceeds of a future bond issue are pledged to pay the note at maturity. Upon completion and final costing of the proj- ect, a tax-exempt bond issue provides permanent financing, and the bond anticipation notes are retired.

Bond Insurance: Insurance that guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest to bondholders.

Bond Rating: Bond ratings are assessments made by investor advi- sory companies, also known as rating agencies, of credit quality or, conversely, the risk that the borrowing government will not make scheduled payments of principal and interest. Rating agencies base their ratings on a number of economic, debt, financial, and gov-

Budget: A financial plan, including proposed expenditures and esti- mated revenues, for a period in the future, usually for one year.

Callable Bonds: Bonds that are redeemable by the issuer prior to the specified maturity date at the specified price at or above par.

Capital Budget: The annual request for capital project appropriations. Project appropriations are normally only for that amount neces- sary to enable the implementation of the first year of the capital program expenditure plan. However, if contracted work is sched- uled that will extend beyond the upcoming fiscal year, the entire contract appropriation is required, even if the work and expendi- tures will be spread over two or more fiscal years.

Capital Gain: An increase in the value of an asset.

Capitalization: The process by which a stream of tax liabilities be- comes incorporated into the price of an asset.

Capital Improvements Program (CIP): The comprehensive presenta- tion of capital project expenditure estimates; funding requirements; capital budget requests; and program data for the construction of all public buildings, roads, and other facilities planned by county agencies usually over a five or six-year period. The CIP constitutes both a fiscal plan for proposed project expenditures and funding, and includes the annual capital budget for appropriations to fund project activity during the first fiscal year of the plan. .

Capital Lease: A long-term rental agreement that transfers substan- tial rights and obligations for the use of an asset to the lessee and, generally, ownership at the end of the lease. Similar to an install- ment purchase, a Capital Lease may also represent the purchase of a fixed asset and the incidence of a long-term liability.

Capital Project: Governmental effort involving expenditures and funding for the creation, expansion, renovation, or replacement of permanent facilities and other public assets having relatively long life. Expenditures within capital projects may include costs for the planning, design, and construction management; land; site im-

Capitalized Interest: A portion of bond proceeds that are set aside to pay interest on the bonds until the projects funded by those bonds are built, operating, and capable of generating revenues for making debt service payments.

Carryover: The process in which, at the end of one fiscal year, appro- priation authority for previously-approved encumbrances and un- expended grant and capital funds are carried forward to the next fiscal year.

Cash Management: An effort to manage cash flows in such a way that interest and penalties paid are minimized and interest earned is maximized.

Categorical Grants: A type of grant that may only be used for a spe- cific program that is usually limited to a narrowly defined activity. Categorical grants consist of formula, . project, and formula-project grants.

Certificate of Participation (COP): A form of lease obligation in which the county enters into an agreement to pay a fixed amount annually to a third party, usually a nonprofit agency or a private

leasing company. Otherwise, they do what municipal bonds do: They raise money to acquire equipment or construct a facility. According to municipal finance experts, almost anything can be engineered for lease. COPs are similar to bonds, but are not le- gally classified as such, meaning that state and local governments can issue them without voter approval and without affecting their overall bonding capacity.

Circuit Breaker: A type of residential property tax relief in which benefits depend on income and/or wealth and property tax pay- ments. A circuit breaker usually takes one of two forms. Under the threshold approach, an “acceptable” tax burden is defined as some fixed percentage of household income (different percentages may be set for different income levels), and any tax above this portion of income is “excessive” and qualifies for relief. The portion of in- come that is deemed an acceptable tax burden is the threshold level. Under the sliding scale approach, no threshold is defined. Rather, a fixed percentage of the property tax is rebated for each eligible taxpayer within an income class. The rebate percentage declines as income increases.

Collective Bargaining Agreement: A legal contract between the county government or an agency as employer and a certified rep- resentative of a recognized bargaining unit for specific terms and conditions of employment; e.g., hours, working conditions, salaries, or employee benefits.

Community Development Block Grant (CDBG): Annual funding from the Federal Government (Department of Housing and Urban Development) for use in capital projects or operating programs de- signed to stimulate neighborhood or business area revitalization, housing rehabilitation, and activities on behalf of older and lower- income areas of the count

Compensation: Payment made to employees in return for services performed. Total compensation includes salaries, wages, employee benefits (Social Security, employer¬-paid insurance premiums, dis- ability coverage, and retirement contributions), and other forms of remuneration when these have a stated value.

Commercial Paper: A form of short-term tax-exempt debt issued by state and local governments that matures within a short period (less than 365 days) from the date of Issue.

Competitive Underwriting: A sale of municipal securities by an is- suer to the underwriter offering the best bid (lowest net or true interest cost) in open competitive bidding. Contrasts with negoti- ated underwriting.

Constant Yield Tax Rate: A rate which, when applied to the coming year’s assessable base, exclusive of the estimated assessed value of property appearing on the tax rolls for the first time (new con- struction), will produce tax revenue equal to that produced in the current tax year.

Construction Fund: A special fund, often held by the trustee or other fiduciary, into which the net proceeds of an issue are deposited and are to be used to pay project costs. The construction fund is often pledged for the payment of the securities, pending its use for the purpose of paying the project costs.

Continuing Disclosure: The requirement that certain issuers of mu- nicipal obligations file annual reports concerning financial and operating data presented in an official statement.

Cost-Benefit Analysis: An analytical technique that compares the costs and benefits of proposed programs or policy actions.

Cost Center: Expenditure categories within a program area that re- late to specific organizational goals or objectives. Each cost center may consist of an entire agency or a part of an agency.

Cost of Issuance: Expenses paid by the issuer directly related to the authorization, sale, and issuance of bonds. These costs may include legal fees, trustee’s fees, printing costs, bond discounts, cost of credit ratings, fees and charges for execution, as well as filing and recording fees.

Coupon: Detachable portions of a bond presented by its holder to bond issuer’s paying agent to document interest due. The coupon rate is the rate of interest on face value that the coupons reflect.

Current Revenue: A funding source for the Capital Budget that is provided for annually within the Operating Budget from general, special, or enterprise revenues. Current revenues are used for fund- ing project appropriations not eligible for debt financing or to sub- stitute for debt-eligible costs.

Dated Date: The date of a bond issue from which the bondholder is entitled to receive interest even though the bonds may actually be delivered at some other date.

Debt: The total amount owed at a given point in time; the sum of all past deficits.

Debt Limit: The statutory or constitutional maximum debt that an issuer can legally incur.

Debt Service: The annual payment of principal, interest, and issue costs of bonded indebtedness. Debt service is presented both in terms of specific bond allocations by category, fund and by sources of revenues used.

Debt Service Fund: A fund used to record fiscal activities related to the payment of principal, interest, and overhead costs of general ob- ligation debt, capital leases, and equipment purchase agreements.

Default: Failure by the issuer to pay the principal or interest due on a bond, or failure to fulfill other agreed upon legal and contractual obligations.

Deficit: The amount by which expenditures exceed revenues during an accounting period.

Depreciation: The decline of the useful life of a fixed asset over a determined period of time attributable to wear and tear, deterio- ration, action of the physical elements, inadequacy, and obsoles- cence. Also, the portion of the cost of a fixed asset charged as an expense during a particular period. .

Derivatives: A complex investment that is largely unregulated, espe- cially when compared with stocks and bonds. They are securities whose value is derived from some other variable, such as inter- est rates or foreign currencies, and can be used to reduce risk or increase returns. Derivatives are rarely used and significantly re- stricted in most states.

Development District: A special taxing district created to finance the costs of infrastructure improvements necessary for the devel- opment or redevelopment of land of high priority to the county. These districts are often designated for areas that the county’s long-range master plan recommends significant development.

Development Impact Fee: A payment of money imposed upon new property developments as a condition of approval from the county. Development impact fees pay for a proportionate share of the cost of improvements needed to serve new growth and development.

Disbursement: Expenditure or a transfer of funds to another account- ing entity within the county’s financial system. Total disburse- ments equal the sum of expenditures and transfers.

Double-barreled Bond: A bond secured by the pledge of more than one source of repayment, often project revenue and taxing power.

Earned Income Tax Credit: A tax credit for low-income individuals.

Electronic Commerce: It is the use of computer networks to facili- tate transactions involving the production, distribution, and sale and delivery of goods and services in the marketplace. A paperless exchange of business information using the Internet, E-mail, elec- tronic bulletin boards, and similar technologies.

Employee Benefits: For budgeting purposes, employee (fringe) ben- efits are payments by the employer for Social Security, retirement, and group insurance.

Encumbrance: An accounting commitment that reserves appropriat- ed funds for a future expenditure. The total of all expenditures and encumbrances for a department or agency in a fiscal year, or for a capital project, may not exceed its total appropriation. The com- mitments relate to unperformed contracts for goods or services.

Enterprise Fund: A fund established to finance and account for the acquisition, operation, and maintenance of governmental facilities and services that are wholly or partially supported by user charges/ fees. Examples include liquor control and parking facilities.

Excise Tax: A tax levied on the purchase of a particular commodity.

Expendable Trust Funds: Accounting entities for assets the county does not own but must use for certain purposes, such as escrow de- posits held by the county and retiree group insurance reserves.

Expenditure: A decrease in the net financial resources of the county generally due to the purchase of goods and services, the payment of salaries and benefits, and the payment of debt service.

Expenses: Charges incurred, whether paid or unpaid, by the county for operation, maintenance, interest, and other charges that are presumed to benefit the current fiscal period.

Fee: A charge for service to the user or beneficiary of the service.

Fiduciary Funds: Assets held by the county in a trustee capacity or as an agent for individual private organizations, other governmen- tal units, and/or other funds. These can include expendable trust funds, agency funds, pension trust funds, and nonexpendable trust funds.

Fines: Charges levied for violations of laws, regulations, or codes.

Fiscal Policy: The County’s policies with respect to revenues, expen- ditures, and debt management as these relate to county services, programs, and capital investments. A fiscal policy provides a set

Fiscal Plan: Estimates of revenues, based on recommended tax policy and moderate economic assumptions, and projections of currently known or recommended commitments for future uses of resources.

Fiscal Projections: Estimates of revenues and projections of possible expenditures for the functions of government, including analysis of the impact of tax and expenditure patterns on public programs and the economy of the county.

Fiscal Year (FY): A twelve-month period designated as the operating year for accounting and budgeting purposes in a county. A fiscal year can start on different dates depending upon the county, in- cluding January 1st and July 1st.

Fixed Assets: Assets of a long-term character that are intended to continue to be held or used. Examples of fixed assets include items such as land, buildings, machinery, furniture, and other equip- ment.

Flat Tax: A tax for which the marginal tax rate is constant through- out the entire range of Incomes.

Formula Grants: A type of grant that allocates federal funds to states or their subdivisions in accordance with a distribution formula pre- scribed by law or administrative regulation.

Franchise Fee: A fee levied on a corporation in return for authorized conduct of business on or use of public property, or as otherwise provided for by county law.

Full-Time Equivalent (FTE): A standardized unit for measurement of government personnel effort and costs. A position authorized for 40 hours per week is reflected in the budget as one authorized position with a full-time equivalency of one (1/1.0 FTE).

Fund: An accounting devise established to control the receipt and disbursement of revenues for the purpose of implementing specific activities or achieving certain objectives in accordance with spe- cial regulations, restrictions, or limitations, and constituting an independent fiscal and accounting entity.

Fund Balance: Undesignated reserves in a fund, the amount by which resources exceed the obligations of the fund. Fund balance may be measured as a percentage of revenues or expenditures.

General Fund: The principal operating fund for a county govern- ment. The General Fund is used to account for all financial re- sources except those required by law, county policy, and generally accepted accounting principles that are to be accounted for in an- other fund.

General Obligation (G.O.) Bond: A bond secured by the pledge of the county’s full faith, credit, and taxing power. Many state and/ or county laws require voter approval of G.O. Bonds. These bonds are regarded as safer than bonds backed by a single revenue source, and generally command lower interest rates and lower reserve fund requirements.

General Revenue: Money received that may be used to fund general county expenditures such as education, public safety, public wel- fare, debt service, etc. Funds received that are restricted as to use are not general revenues and are accounted for in other funds.

General Sales Tax: A tax levied at the same rate on the purchase of all commodities.

General Wage Adjustment (GWA): An increase in salaries other than seniority-based merit increases (increments). GWA is also re- ferred to as a Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA).

Grant: A payment from one level of government to another or from a private organization to a government. Grants are made for speci- fied purposes and must be spent only for that purpose.

Gross Budget: The total cost of a department’s operation (not ap- propriation), including those expenditures that are charged to (and paid by) other funds, departments, agencies, or CIP projects.

Gross Debt: The sum total of an issuer’s debt obligations.

Gross Estate: All property owned by the decedent at the time of death.

Gross Spread: The dollar difference between the amount the issuer receives for its securities and the amount that the investors pay for those securities; the gross revenue accruing to the underwriters of a security prior to any costs or expenses.

Homestead: A homestead can be a separate structure, condominium, or a mobile home located on owned or leased land as long as the individual living in the home owns it.

Homestead Exemption: Homestead exemptions remove part of a home’s value from taxation in order to lower property taxes. For example, if your home is appraised at $50,000, and you qualify for a $15,000 exemption, you will pay taxes on the home as if it was worth only $35,000.

Horizontal Equity: In terms of taxation, people in equal positions should be treated equally.

Impact Fees: An impact fee is a one-time charge that requires new development to pay a proportionate share of the revenue needed for construction or expansion of capital facilities to serve the new development. Impact Fees can be collected for many things, in- cluding roads, schools, and water system improvements.

Incremental Funding: The provision of budgetary resources for a program or project based on obligations estimated to be incurred within a fiscal year when such budgetary resources will cover only a portion of the obligations to be incurred in completing the pro- gram or project as programmed.

Individual Retirement Account (IRA): For qualified individuals, a savings account in which the contributions are tax deductible and the interest accrues tax free, provided the funds are held until re- tirement. On withdrawal, both contributions and accrued interest are subject to tax.

Inheritance Tax: Tax levied on an individual receiving an inheri- tance.

Indirect Costs: That component of the total cost for a service that is provided by and budgeted within another agency in the county (e.g., legal support, personnel).

Interest Rate: The percentage rate at which a bond bears interest.

Interfund Transfer: A transfer of resources from one fund to another as required by law or appropriation. The funds are considered rev- enues of the source fund, not the receiving fund.

Intergovernmental Revenue: Funds received from Federal, state, and other local government sources in the form of grants, shared taxes, reimbursements, and payments in lieu of taxes.

Internal Service Funds: Separate financial accounts used to record transactions (primarily goods and services) provided by one de- partment to other departments of the county government on a

cost-reimbursable basis. Examples are: motor pool, central dupli- cating, risk management, and printing and mail.

Issuer: A government, political subdivision, agency, or authority that borrows money through the sale of bonds or notes.

Lapse: The reduction of gross personnel costs by an amount believed unnecessary because of turnover, vacancies, and normal delays in filling positions. The amount of lapse will differ among depart- ments, and from year to year.

Lease-Purchase Agreement: A contractual agreement which is termed “lease,” but is in substance a purchase contract with pay- ments made over time.

Lease-Purchase Financing: A long-term lease sold publicly to finance capital equipment or real property acquisitions. A Certificate of Participation is one example.

Lease Revenue Bond: A bond secured by a lease agreement and rent- al payments from one public agency (lessee) to another (lessor). Lease payments are typically made from revenue sources including general fund, enterprise fund or user fees. The lessor and issuer of the bonds may be a city, county, non-profit corporation, redevelop- ment agency, joint powers authority, parking authority, etc. The title reverts to lessee after bonds are retired.

Level of Service: The existing or current services, programs, and fa- cilities provided by a government to its citizens. The level of ser-

Licenses and Permits: Documents issued by the county in order to regulate various kinds of businesses and other activities. Inspection may accompany the issuance of a license or permit, as in the case of food vending licenses or building permits. In most instances, a fee is charged in conjunction with the issuance of a license or per- mit, generally to cover all or part of the related cost.

Limited-liability Bond: A bond that does not pledge the full-faith credit of the jurisdiction but does usually dedicate a specific rev- enue source for repayment.

Line Item: A specific expenditure category within an agency budget, e.g., rent, travel, motor pool services, postage, or printing.

Master Lease: A securitized package of leases designed to reduce in- terest rates compared to standard commercial leases.

Means-Tested: A spending program whose benefits flow only to those whose financial resources fall below a certain level.

Millage: A rate of taxation expressed in mils per dollar (0.01 %), nor- mally in property taxation.

Minibonds: County bonds, usually general obligation bonds, issued in small denominations so that they are affordable to a wider segment of the population.

Mission: The desirable end result of any activity. Missions are gener- ally broad and long range in nature compared to goals, which are

more specific and immediate. An example of a mission is: “to pro- vide safe, reliable, and cost-efficient public transportation to the residents of the county.”

Modified Accrual Basis: The basis of accounting under which ex- penditures other than accrued interest on general long-term debt are recorded at the time liabilities are incurred and revenues are recorded when received in cash.

Mortgage Revenue Bond: A tax-exempt security issued by a state or local government or authority to purchase loans such as mortgages

Municipal Bond: A bond issued by a state or local government.

Negotiated Underwriting: A sale of municipal securities in which the terms of the sale are determined through negotiation between the issuer and the purchaser without competitive bidding.

Net Budget: The legal appropriation requirement to finance a fund, department/account, agency, or CIP project. The net budget in- cludes the funds required for charges from other funds, depart- ments, agencies, or CIP projects for services rendered, but does not include charges made to other departments for services rendered.

Net Interest Cost: municipal securities. The traditional method of calculating bids for new issues of

Net Revenue: Gross revenues less operating and maintenance ex- penses.

Net Wage: The wage after taxes.

Neutral Taxation: Taxing each good at the same rate.

Nexus: Nexus is established when a company has made sufficient con- tact or established a significant presence within a particular state which constitutes “doing business” in that state. Once this defini- tion is met, the state has legal power to tax the company as well as require the company to collect and remit sales and use taxes. These definitions vary considerably from state-to-state.

Nominal Interest Rate: The interest rate unadjusted for inflation.

Non-Callable Bond: A bond that cannot be called for redemption before its specified maturity date.

Non-Departmental Account: A budget category used to account for resources used for county-funded activities that do not fall within the functional assignment of any department, or for expenditures related to more than one department.

Non-Expendable Trust Funds: Accounting entities for the principal portion of assets held by a government, such as endowments or

Non-tax Revenue: Includes user charges and fees, lotteries, special assessments, fines, forfeitures, interest earnings, and other miscel- laneous general revenues.

Non-Tax Supported Fund: A revenue fund supported by revenues other than taxes.

Notes: Short-term promises to pay specified amounts of money se- cured by future revenues from specific sources such as bond pro- ceeds, taxes, and federal/state aid payments. They are typically named by the types of revenues expected (bond anticipation notes, tax anticipation notes, revenue anticipation notes, etc.)

Operating Budget: A financial plan that presents proposed expen- ditures for a given period (typically a fiscal year) and estimates of revenue to finance them. Usually excludes expenditures for capital assets.

Operating Expense: Those costs, other than expenditures for person- nel costs and capital outlay, which are necessary to support the operation of the organization, such as charges for contractual ser- vices, telephones, printing, motor pool, and office supplies

Own-Source General Revenues: Includes revenue from property, general sales, excise, and individual and corporate income taxes, current charges and miscellaneous revenues, including interest. It does not include intergovernmental revenue.

Partial Capitalization: The process of either expensing or transfer- ring to the fixed asset account group prior fiscal year expenditures for ongoing capital projects only.

Pass-Through Financing: Tax-exempt issue to finance facilities for the use of a private for-profit or non-profit entity, which is generally

Pay-as-you-go: A financial policy of a governmental unit that finances capital outlays from current revenues rather than from borrowing.

Payments-in-lieu-of-taxes (PILT): Funds that are paid to offset costs incurred by counties for services provided to tax-exempt proper- ties. These types of properties vary, but they can include property owned by state, federal, and other local governments. A new trend is for counties to negotiate payments with not-for-profit organiza- tions.

Pension Trust Funds: Accounting entities for assets held by the county from which retirement annuities and other benefits are paid to former employees.

Per Capita Debt: The amount of municipal debt divided by the popu- lation within the issuer’s political jurisdiction. It is used as an indi- cation of the issuer’s general obligation debt burden.

Performance Measurement: The use of program indicators, includ- ing output and outcome measures, and other program data to as- sess the efficiency and effectiveness of program activity.

Personal Consumption Tax: A system under which each household’s tax base is its consumption expenditures.

Personal Property Tax: A tax on property that is not real estate, such as cars and boats.

Personnel Complement: The full and part-time positions, workyears, and costs related to employees of the departments and agencies of the county.

Personnel Costs: Expenditures made for salaries, wages, and benefits payable to county employees.

Poverty Line: A fixed level of real income considered enough to pro- vide a minimally adequate standard of living.

Premium: The amount by which the price exceeds the principal amount of a bond.

Present Value: The value today of a certain amount of money to be paid or received in the future.

Prime Interest Rate: The rate of interest charged by banks to their preferred customers.

Principal: The face value of a municipal bond or note, exclusive of accrued interest.

Privatization: The process of changing ownership or control of an enterprise from the public to the private sector.

Productivity Improvement: Increased quantity or improved quality of goods or services using the same or fewer resources. Productiv- ity improvement may be achieved through cost efficiencies, alter- native means of delivering services, streamlining organizational structures, making use of automation and other time or labor-sav- ing innovations, and eliminating unnecessary procedures or re- quirements.

Program: A primary service, function, or set of activities that address a specific responsibility or goal within an agency’s mission. A pro- gram encompasses all associated activities directed toward the at- tainment of established objectives.

Program Budget: A statement and plan that identifies and classifies total expenditures and revenues by activity or program. Budgets are aggregated into program areas. This is in contrast to a line-item budget, which identifies expenditures only by objects for which money is spent, e.g., personnel services or capital equipment.

Program Change: A change in expenditures, revenues, or service de- livery of a program. A Program Change can involve a new initia- tive, service expansion or reduction, a change in workyears, or a change in policy.

Program Description: A statement of the purpose for a program, ex- plaining how it contributes to a department’s mission, and what it does. A program description identifies activities that will accom- plish specific functions or meet service responsibilities.

Program Indicator: A particular value or characteristic used to mea- sure workload, output, efficiency or effectiveness outcomes; specif- ic information that permits an assessment of how well services are being delivered. Program indicators, such as the percentage of solid waste recycled, can be used to measure the efficiency and effective- ness of program activity.

Program Performance Budget: A method of budgeting whereby the services provided to county residents are broken down in identifi- able service programs or performance units. A unit can be a depart- ment, a division, or a workgroup. Each program has an identifiable service or output and objectives to effectively provide the service.

Progressive Tax: A tax with effective rates that is higher for families with higher affluence than they are for families with lower afflu- ence.

Proportional: A tax system under which an individual’s average tax rate is the same at each level of income.

Public Facilities: Facilities that serve any valid public purpose.

Public Finance: The field of economics that analyzes government taxation and spending policies.

Purchase Order: A document that authorizes the delivery of specified merchandise or the rendering of certain services and the making of a charge for them.

Rate Schedule: A list of the tax liabilities associated with each level of taxable income.

Real Interest Rate: The nominal interest rate corrected for changes in the level of prices by subtracting the expected inflation rate.

Realized Capital Gain: A capital gain resulting from the sale of an asset.

Reallocation of Appropriation: The transfer of unencumbered ap- propriations (expenditure authority) within the same appropria- tion category and within the same department and fund.

Real Property: Real estate, including land and improvements (build- ings, fences, pavements, etc.), classified for purposes of assessment.

Referendum: The principle or practice of submitting to popular vote a measure passed on or proposed by a legislative body or by popular initiative.

Receipts: Cash received by the county.

Refunding: The sale of new bonds in order to retire outstanding bonds. A refunding may be used to achieve lower interest rates or to replace a restrictive bond resolution with a less restrictive one.

Registered Bond: A bond whose owner is registered with the issuer or its agent. Transfer of ownership can be accomplished only when the registered owner properly endorses the securities.

Regressive Tax: A tax with effective rates that is lower for families with higher affluence than they are for families with lower afflu- ence.

Related Revenue: Revenues earned by the operation of a program. Related revenues are generally not dedicated to the program itself, but flow to a revenue fund. Revenues are related to a program in the sense that revenue will vary depending on the scope and level of services provided through program expenditures.

Reserve: An account used either to set aside budgeted resources that are not required for expenditure in the current budget year or to earmark resources for a specific future purpose.

Resources: Units of input such as workforce, funds, material, equip- ment, facilities, or other elements supplied to produce and deliver

services required to meet program objectives. Examples are: librar- ians (workyears), numbers of libraries (facilities), book collections (material). From a fiscal point of view, resources include revenues, net transfers, and available fund balance.

Request for Information (RFI): A non-binding document that is is- sued when a county is considering the acquisition of a particular service or product. The purpose of a RFI is to solicit information and/or to determine the level of vendor interest in providing a ser- vice or product.

Request for Proposal (RFP): A solicitation inviting proposals from vendors who believe they can provide the products and/or services your county needs. It is also a formal and binding document. A RFP describes the products and/or services needed, but can also ask vendors to propose a solution to a specific county need.

Request for Quotation (RFQ): This kind of quotation is typically used for low-dollar purchases. A verbal price quotation, telephone quote, or faxed quote are three examples of a RFQ.

Revenue: All funds that the county receives, including tax payments, fees for specific services, receipts from other governments, fines, forfeitures, shared revenues, and interest income.

Revenue Bonds: A type of bond that is issued to finance a revenue- producing enterprise, with principal and interest payable exclusive-

Revenue Sharing: A grant from the federal government to a state or locality that places no restrictions on the use of the funds.

Risk Management: A process used to identify and measure the risks of accidental loss, to develop and implement techniques for han- dling risk, and to monitor results. Techniques used may include self-insurance, commercial insurance, and loss control activities.

Roll Over: Issuance of new notes to retire outstanding notes.

Salaries and Wages: An expenditure category for monetary compen- sation to employees in the form of annual or hourly rates of pay for hours worked.

Sales and Gross Receipts Taxes: Taxes based on volume or value of transfers of goods or services, on gross receipts therefrom, or on gross income and related taxes based on use, storage, production, impor- tation, or consumption of goods. Sales taxes are imposed on sales transactions that occur within the county’s boundaries. Sales taxes are collected from the purchaser by the seller at the time of sale, and then remitted by the seller to the government(s) imposing them.

Salary Schedule: A listing of minimum and maximum salaries for each grade level in a classification plan for merit system positions.

Security: A piece of paper that proves ownership of stocks, bonds and other investments.

Serial Bonds: Bonds that have scheduled annual or semi-annual ma- turities over a period of years.

Short-term Debt: Interest-bearing debt payable within one year from date of issue, such as bond-anticipation notes, bank loans, and tax -anticipation notes and warrants. Includes obligations that have no fixed maturity date if payable from a tax levied for collection in the year of their issuance.

Sinking Fund: A reserve fund in which money is set aside at regular intervals so that it is sufficient to retire bonds at or prior to matu- rity.

Special Assessment Bonds: Bonds issued by a county or special au- thority that are secured by some type of special taxes, charges, or fees. These bonds are sold to finance specific public infrastructure improvements that directly benefit the property owners in limited, identifiable areas. The assessments are based on property measure- ment systems related to the benefits such as street front-footage or square footage owned. The system for collecting assessments is usually tied to the collection of ad valorem property taxes. Most Special Assessment Bonds have maturities of 15 years or less.

Special Revenue Funds: Financial accounts used to record the re- ceipt and use of resources which, by law, generally accepted ac- counting principles, or county policy, must be kept distinct from the general revenues of the county. Revenues for special funds are generally either from a special tax on a specific geographical area or a user charge or fee from persons benefiting from special services or programs.

Special Taxing District: A geographic area that is established by leg- islation within which a special tax is levied to provide for specific services to the area.

Statutory Incidence: Indicates who is legally responsible for paying a tax.

Supplemental Appropriation: An appropriation of funds above amounts originally appropriated to authorize expenditures not an- ticipated in the adopted budget. A supplemental appropriation is required to enable expenditure of reserves or additional revenues received by the county through grants or other sources.

Tax: A compulsory payment to a government for the purpose of fi- nancing services performed for the common good.

Tax Amnesty: Allowing delinquent taxes to be paid without prosecu- tion.

Tax Anticipation Notes (TANs): Short-term notes that are issued in

Tax Avoidance: Altering behavior in such a way to reduce your legal tax liability.

Tax Base: The total amount of property and resources subject to tax- ation.

Tax Credit: A tax credit includes any special provisions of law that result in a dollar-for-dollar reduction in tax liabilities that would otherwise be due. A subtraction from tax liability (as opposed to a subtraction from taxable income).

Tax Evasion: Not paying taxes legally due.

Tax Expenditure: A loss of tax revenue because some item is exclud- ed from the tax base.

Tax Increment Financing (TIF): For a traditional TIP, an area with- in the county is designated, property taxes are frozen at a base val- ue, and then a bond is issued to pay for the redevelopment of the area. Increased property tax revenues associated with an increase in assessed valuation of the property over the frozen base repay the bond. TIFs are increasingly used for redeveloping blighted areas. State laws may limit their use.

Tax Indexing: Automatically adjusting the tax schedule to compen- sate for inflation so that an individual’s real tax burden is indepen- dent of inflation.

Tax Levy: The amount of tax dollars billed to taxpayers based on the imposition of the property tax rate on the assessed valuation.

Tax Life: The number of years an asset can be depreciated.

Taxable Estate: The gross estate less deductions for costs of settling the estate, outstanding debts of the estate, and charitable contri- butions.

Taxable Income: The amount of income subject to tax.

Tax-exempt Bonds: Municipal bonds where the interest is exempt from federal income, state income, or state and local personal property taxes.

Tax-rate Limit: The maximum legal rate at which a government may levy a tax.

Term Bond: A bond that has a single maturity (the entire principal matures on one date) and is subject to a sinking fund.

Tipping Fee: A fee charged for each ton of solid waste disposed of, or “tipped,” at a solid waste transfer station.

Transient-occupancy Tax: Monies collected by a hotel/motel tax.

True Interest Cost (TIC): The internal rate of return or effective in- terest cost of the bonds based on the purchase price of the bonds and the debt service payments on the bonds.

Trustee: A bank or agent designated to serve as the custodian of funds and the official representative of bondholders, and who ensures that the bond covenants are not neglected.

Trust Indenture: The document that contains the rights and liabili- ties of the issuer and the trustee.

Unappropriated Reserves: Fund balances available at the close of the preceding year that are not included as resources in the annual budget. Unappropriated fund balances are usually designated for certain programs or projects by the county’s legislative body.

Underwriter: A dealer firm that purchases municipal bonds from the issuer and then resells them to the public. The underwriter assumes the risk of ownership until the bonds are sold.

Unincorporated County: Those portions of the county that are not part of the legal entity such as a city or town.

Unit Tax: A tax levied as a fixed amount per unit of commodity pur- chased.

Use Tax: A sales tax that residents of a given state must pay to that state even if the commodity was purchased in another state. The purpose of use taxes is to remove the incentive to purchase goods out-of-state where they might be taxed at a lower rate or not at all. If use taxes were not imposed and some consumers did have oppor- tunities to buy out-of-state on a no-tax or lower-tax basis, state and local governments imposing sales taxes would lose revenues.

User Fee: The payment made by users of a government-provided good or service.

Value-added Tax (VAT): A percentage tax on value added at each stage of production.

Variable Rate Bond: A bond whose yield is not fixed but is adjusted periodically according to a prescribed formula. Variable rate bonds can adjust the interest rate as often as daily, or as infrequently as annually.

Vertical Equity: Distributing tax burdens fairly across people with different abilities to pay.

Vouchers: Grants earmarked for particular commodities, such as medical care or education, given to individuals. A voucher can also be a written document that evidences expenditures and usu- ally indicates the accounts in which they are to be paid.

Workload Indicator: A unit of work to be performed (e.g., number of permit applications received, the number of households receiving refuse collection service, or the number of burglaries to be inves- tigated).

Yield: The net annual percentage of income an investor will receive from a municipal bond.

Yield-to-Call: The annual percentage return on an investment calcu- lated to the earliest call date.

Yield-to-Maturity: The annual percentage rate of return an investor will receive taking into account the interest rate, length of time to maturity, and the price paid for the bond.

Zero-based Budgeting: A process emphasizing management’s respon- sibility to plan, budget, and evaluate. Zero-based budgeting pro- vides for analysis of alternative methods of operation and various levels of effort. It places new programs on an equal footing with existing programs by requiring that program priorities be ranked, thereby providing a systematic basis for allocating resources.

Zero Coupon Bonds: Non-interest bearing bonds sold substantially below par value. The difference between the discount price and par represents the compound annual interest rate for the investor.

================================================================================

amortize: to repay a loan by making interest and partial principal payments each repayment period, typically a month.

amortization: the process of amortizing a loan.

annually: once a year. See also semiannually, quarterly

annuitant: the owner or recipient of an annuity.

annuity: a type of insurance policy that pays the annuitant a sum of money (previously annually but often today monthly) over a pre‐specified period or during the annuitant’s lifetime or that of his or her spouse.

ask price: the price at which a dealer will sell a security from its inventory. See also bid price

asset: any good owned by any entity and held on its balance sheet.

asset bubble: the condition when the price of an asset or asset class exceeds its fundamental value for an extended period.

asset class: a group of similar assets like bonds, equities, or real estate.

association: 1) any one of a number of types of business entity; 2) a type of organization. See also Building and Loan associations, Savings and Loan associations

asymmetric information: when one party to a contract (buyer or seller) knows more than the counterparty, such as adverse selection, moral hazard, and the principal‐agent problem.

bad: 1) anything that no entity values at greater than zero; 2) anything that entities are willing to pay to reduce or eliminate. See also good

Bagehot’s Rule: See Hamilton’s Rule.

balance sheet: a type of financial statement that lists an entity’s assets, liabilities, and capital. So called because assets must equal (or in other words be in balance with) liabilities plus capital (which can be negative).

balance sheet consolidation: the act of combining the balance sheets of two or more entities, as in a merger.

bank: one of a variety of financial intermediaries that accepts deposits and makes loans and/or that engages in brokerage, merger and acquisition consulting, or securities issuance. See also bank of discount and deposit, bank of issue, banker, Building and Loan association, central bank, commercial bank, credit union, depository institution, investment bank, mutual savings bank, private banker, Savings and Loan association, savings bank, thrift, unit bank, universal bank 2 | P a g e

bank of discount and deposit: an archaic term for a commercial bank.

bank of issue: an archaic term for a bank that issued its own bank notes.

banker: an individual engaged in banking as a private banker or as an employee of a bank. See also financier

bank notes: a form of paper money issued by banks (banks of issue) and generally convertible into specie at their respective face values at current coin ratings at the bank of issue. See also suspension of specie payments

bank holding company: a bank that holds one or more other banks as assets on its balance sheet.

bank run: 1) historically, when holders of a bank’s demand liabilities, specifically its bank notes or deposits, request payment or conversion en masse; 2) today, when creditors refuse to renew short‐term loans to a bank, also known as a silent run. See also liability run

banking: the activities of a bank or banker such as making loans, taking deposits, and/or engaging in investment banking.

bankrupt: an entity in a state of bankruptcy in sense 1 or 2 of that word.

bankruptcy: 1) generally, the condition of an entity that has negative net worth, to wit the monetary value of its liabilities exceeds the monetary value of its assets. 2) the state of an entity that has filed for protection from its creditors under a bankruptcy law. See also insolvency

bankruptcy law: a statute that determines how a bankrupt entity’s assets shall be used to pay its liabilities.

base money: any type of money that banks can count as reserves. See also cash, specie

benefits: 1) the non‐monetary compensation of an employee, such as health insurance; 2) more generally, the utility or resources derived by an entity from some good or activity. See also costs

bill: a short‐dated bond, especially one issued by the U.S. Treasury. See also commercial paper

bill of credit: a type of medium of exchange or paper money issued by the colonial governments of mainland British North America and often, though not always, made a full legal tender.

bill of exchange: a short‐dated international financial instrument drawn on foreign entity in a foreign currency. See also inland bill

bid price: the price at which a dealer will buy a security for its inventory. See also ask price 3 | P a g e

bond: 1) generically, any loan; 2) in finance, a negotiable, long‐dated, interest‐bearing financial instrument. See also bill, coupon bond

bondholder: 1) the owner of a bond; 2) any lender or creditor whose loan is secured by a bond.

boom: See expansion

borrower: any entity that receives principal from a lender in exchange for a promise to repay the principal plus interest in the future.

branch: an office of an intermediary, typically a bank, where financial services are provided to customers remotely from the financial institution’s headquarters.

broker: any entity that brokers (v.).

brokerage: an intermediary that brokers and deals. See also broker‐dealer

broker‐dealer: a brokerage.

budget deficit: the difference between an entity’s (typically a government’s) income and its expenditures that must be financed through the sale of assets or the issuance of securities, usually bonds or money.

business: 1) an entity whose primary goal is to earn profits; 2) a for‐profit firm; 3) of or pertaining to the activities carried out by businesses.

business activity: any actions undertaken by any business entity such as buying, selling, brokering, dealing, lending, borrowing, collateralizing, exchanging, or trading.

business entity: an association, corporation, partnership, sole proprietor, or other entity that buys and/or sells goods in an attempt to earn profits. See also business, organization

bust: See recession

buyer: the entity in a trade that gives up money and receives a non‐monetary good in exchange.

Building and Loan association: a type of mutual corporation that specialized in financing the construction of homes that were replaced following the Great Depression by the Savings and Loan association.

bullion: gold or silver in the form of bars or ingots. See also specie

call: a demand made for the payment of a liability owed to a creditor. See also call (v.), call loan, call option 4 | P a g e

callable: lawfully capable of being called (v.); 2) subject to a call (n.).

call loan: a loan, typically an overnight one collateralized by stock, that the lender can call (v.) at any time.

call option: a type of option derivative that gives the option holder the right but not the obligation to purchase some predetermined asset at a predetermined strike price. See also option, put option

capital: 1) an entity’s net worth; 2) the contributions of stockholders to a joint‐stock corporation; 3) productive physical assets such as factories. See also human capital

capitalism: an economic and political system characterized by Lockean government, a modern financial system, open access entrepreneurship, and modern management but also by some level of corruption, rent seeking, and the exploitation of taxpayers and workers.

capital requirements: capital (1) mandated by some regulator or law, typically expressed as a percentage of a bank’s assets.

cash: 1) any physical medium of exchange that circulates or passes easily hand to hand to make exchanges; 2) slang for short‐dated commercial paper.

cash flow: the movement of cash into and out of an entity during some finite period such as a month or a quarter.

cash value: the sum of money that can be obtained for the relinquishing a whole life insurance policy.

central bank: a bank established by a government to develop and implement monetary policy and/or act as a lender of last resort during crises and/or regulate financial firms and markets.

certificate of deposit (CD): a type of time deposit whereby the depositor agrees to pay a penalty if s/he/it withdraws the principal before maturity, a pre‐specified date some months or years after making the deposit. See also negotiable certificate of deposit

charter: a statute or special act of incorporation authorizing the creation of a corporation. See also general incorporation act

check: a type of draft or written request for payment, typically to a third party, by a depositor in a bank.

circulation: 1) in the economy, passing from hand to hand as cash; 2) an archaic term that referred to bank notes circulating outside the bank of issue. 5 | P a g e

coins: pieces of metal, typically formed into the shape of thin round discs, and embossed with information about its origin (issuer, date of issue, denomination, and so forth). See also full‐bodied coins, token coins

coin rating: the monetary value assigned by governments or other entities to specific specie coins, typically full‐bodied.

collateral: any asset pledged for the repayment of a loan.

collateralize: to pledge collateral for the repayment of a loan.

collateralized: backed by collateral.

commercial bank: a type of bank that primarily makes loans, traditionally discounts, to businesses and that issues mainly checking or other transaction deposits.

commercial paper: a generic term for any type of short‐dated financial instrument, such as a bill of exchange, issued by a business entity. See also bill

commission: a percentage of the sale price of an asset paid to a broker for its brokering services.

commodity money: cash or media of exchange that derive their liquidity from the monetary value of the commodities, such as copper, silver, or gold, that comprise them.

commonweal: for the benefit of the community writ large.

community bank: any relatively small bank that provides financial services to a relatively small geographical area. See also Building and Loan association, country bank, credit union, Savings and Loan association, savings bank, thrift

consumption: 1) the use, using, or using up of a good; 2) one of the major components of aggregate output (Y).

contract: an agreement, written or oral but typically legally binding, between two or more parties specifying precise terms for the sale or exchange of one or more goods.

conversion: the act of changing (converting) one type of asset into another.

convertible: subject to being changed (converted) from one type of asset to another. See also bank notes, convertible bonds

convertible bonds: a type of bond that can be changed (converted) into another security, typically an equity.

convertible money: any type of money that can be changed (converted) into another type of money, such as bank notes into specie. See also credit money 6 | P a g e

copper: a metallic element, symbol Cu and atomic number 29, used to make small denomination full‐bodied and token coins.

corporation: a legal device granting an entity special rights, including, in the case of business entities, perpetual succession, limited liability, and entity shielding. See also charter

corruption: 1) manipulation of the political system by special interests for special interests; 2) the abuse of power by government officials, typically through rent seeking activities such as taking bribes.

costs: the expenditure of resources, including cash. See also opportunity costs, sunk costs

counterparty: the other party to a contract like a derivative or loan.

country bank: an archaic term for a community bank located in a rural or non‐money center (sub)urban area.

coupon: 1) the physical piece of a coupon bond that bondholders clipped off and presented for payment to the bond’s issuer or its redemption agent; 2) an interest payment on a coupon bond.

coupon bond: 1) specifically, a type of bond upon which interest was paid when the bondholder clipped off a section of the bond called a coupon and presented it to the issuer or its redemption agent; 2) generically, any bond that pays interest periodically, such as quarterly or semiannually.

credit money: any type of money, such as bank notes and deposits, the value of which is dependent on the creditworthiness of the issuer. See also convertible money

creditor: an entity to which something, typically money, is owed by its debtor.

credits: 1) generically, an accounting term for things received by an entity, typically stated in terms of its monetary value; 2) in banking, a deposit or other payment by a customer to the bank.

creditworthy: an entity that is thought willing and able to meet all of its current financial obligations. See also creditworthiness

creditworthiness: the condition of being creditworthy.

crisis: See financial crisis

currency: 1) cash; 2) the prevailing unit of account or coin rating.

current money: an archaic term for cash.

credit crunch: a period characterized by a general dearth of liquidity and a decline in the volume of bonds and loans.

credit union: a type of community bank, depository institution, or thrift owned by its depositors and chartered as a credit union. See also mutual corporation 7 | P a g e

day book: a type of single entry account book that records exchanges on a chronological basis without categorization, much like a cash register roll.

deal: to offer to buy securities at a bid price and simultaneously offer to sell the same securities at an offer price and profiting from the difference or spread between the two prices.

dealer: an entity that deals or engages in dealing.

dealing: the act of buying and selling securities at stated bid and ask prices, respectively.

debits: 1) generically, an accounting term for things given up by an entity, typically stated in terms of its monetary value; 2) in banking, a loan or other payment by a bank to a customer.

debt: anything owed to another entity, typically money.

debt instrument: any of a variety of financial instruments representing a debt suggest as an IOU. See also bill, bond

debtor: an entity which owes something, typically money, to its creditor.

default: the failure of an issuer or other lender to make one or more contractual payments of principal or interest due on a bond or other debt instrument.

default risk: the probability of default (n.).

demand: 1) the quantity of a good that buyers desire to purchase at any given price; 2) a request for immediate payment or conversion. See also demand (v.)

demand liabilities: liabilities that lenders can call (demand the payment of) on demand (n., 2, no or short notice). See also bank notes, checking deposits

denomination: the face value of a bank note, bill of credit, or coin.

depositor: an entity that owns a bank deposit.

depository institution: any type of bank that issues deposits, including Building and Loan associations, commercial banks, credit unions, mutual savings banks, Savings and Loan associations, savings banks, and universal banks but not investment banks.

deposit: a sum owed by a bank to a depositor. See also checking deposits, savings deposits

derivative: a financial instrument the monetary value of which is linked to the price of some underlying asset. See also forwards, futures, options, swaps

direct public offering (DPO): an offering of shares in itself by a business entity to members of the public directly, to wit without the services of an investment bank or other intermediary.

discount: a type of loan whereby a bank or other lender pays the borrower the discounted present value of a promissory note or bill of exchange in exchange for the right to collect the face value of the discounted instrument at its maturity.

discounted present value: is the price (present value) of an asset determined by the formula PV (price) equals FV (future value or face value) divided by one plus the interest rate. Note that for any interest rate greater than zero the equation will yield a price less than the face value. The difference between the face value and current price is the time value of money.

dishonor: an archaic term meaning to default (v.). See also honor

disintermediation: the process or condition of reducing exchanges between borrowers and lenders. See also intermediation

double entry: a method of keeping accounts that is more sophisticated than single entry because it involves describing both the credit and debit aspect of each exchange.

draft: a written request for payment, typically to a third party, drawn by a creditor of the payer. See also check, sight draft, time draft

drawee: the entity being drawn upon by a drawer or putative creditor; 2) the acceptor; 3) the payer.

drawer: the entity drawing on its money in the possession of its putative debtor or drawee.

draw on: to formally request a putative debtor to make payment per the terms specified in a check, draft, or bill of exchange.

economic contraction: See recession

economic history: the study of past states of the economy using the analytical tools of economists and the source material of historians. See also history of economic thought

economics: the social science devoted to the study of the economy, especially the production and consumption of goods. See also economists

economists: individuals who study economics.

economy: the sum total of all the interactions of entities in markets at any given time. See also aggregate output, gross domestic product 9 | P a g e

entity: 1) a firm, government, individual, organization, or business entity; 2) an economic unit of production and/or consumption.

entity shielding: a privilege that protects the assets of corporations from seizure by the creditors of bankrupt owners, typically stockholders.

entrepreneur: 1) generally, any entity that attempts to increase its utility by innovating; 2) an individual who establishes a new business entity; 3) a business entity that attempts to invent a new good, develop a new market, introduce a new method of production or distribution, discover a new source of supply, reorganize an existing industry, or engage in rent‐seeking.

entrepreneurship: the state or condition of being an entrepreneur.

equity: 1) a share in a corporation; 2) net worth.

equity market (n): a market where equities or shares are exchanged. See also stock exchange

exchange: 1) the process of engaging in exchange (v.); 2) a physical location for trading securities; 3) an entity than maintains an exchange (2).

expansion: a state of the economy during which aggregate output, typically as measured by Gross Domestic Product, increases past all previous levels.

expenditures: money that flows out of one entity and, typically, into another. See also income, revenue

exploitation: the stealing of resources from another, typically weaker, entity.

exports: goods produced domestically but consumed abroad or consumed by foreign entities domestically (e.g. tourism).

externalities: a type of market failure created when prices do not reflect the full costs or benefits of a good to society. See also negative externalities, positive externalities

face value: the monetary value expressed on (the face of) a financial instrument, bank note, or coin.

Federal Reserve System (Fed): the U.S. central bank established in 1913 and still in operation today.

Federal Reserve Notes (FRN): fiat paper money issued by the Federal Reserve System.

fiat money: 1) a type of non‐commodity money, typically made of paper or token coins, that derives its value from legal tender provisions; 2) fiduciary money. See also paper money, token coins 10 | P a g e

fiduciary money: 1) a type of non‐commodity money composed of substances with a monetary value far below the face value of the fiduciary note or coin that derives its value from the public’s belief that they will be able to exchange the money at its face value due to its current widespread acceptance; 2) fiat money. See also paper money, token coins

final goods: goods that are consumed or invested and not used in the production of other goods.

finance: the science of managing assets, including money.

financial condition: the overall status of an entity’s assets, liabilities, equity (capital), income, and cash flow at any given time.

financial crisis: a period characterized by rapid reductions in the monetary value of financial assets and the market capitalization of financial institutions and, typically, non‐financial entities as well. See also bank run, credit crunch, financial panic, stock market crash

financial guarantee: a type of financial obligation whereby the guarantor or surety promises to pay some third party if a guaranteed entity defaults on its debt or otherwise fails to perform according to contract.

financial industry: the sum of all business entities serving any financial market.

financial institution: 1) narrowly, a business entity that provides financial service(s); 2) broadly, any business or government entity involved in any way in any financial market.

financial instrument: any variety of financial contract, including cash, bond, equity, or derivative.

financial market: any market for any financial instrument or financial service.

financial obligations: anything owed, owing, or potential owing, such as liabilities, endorsements, and financial guarantees.

financial panic: a period characterized by the panicked selling of assets to increase the reserves of banks or the cash balances of other types of entities. See Panic of 1792 …

financial service: any of a range of services related to financial instruments, derivatives, insurance, money, intermediation, or any other financial good.

financial statement: a generic term for any type of account of any entity’s financial condition, including balance sheets and income and cash flow statements.

financial system: all financial institutions and markets and their multifarious interconnections.

financier: a banker or other individual who provides one or more financial services on behalf of himself/herself or a bank, broker, or other intermediary. 11 | P a g e

firm: 1) any business entity; 2) a small or private business entity such as a sole proprietorship or partnership, as in a law firm.

for profit: an organization, typically a business entity, with the common goal of earning a profit. See also non‐profit, not‐for‐profit

forward contract: singular version of forwards

forwards: a type of derivative whereby a buyer and seller agree to exchange a specific quantity of some asset or other good at a future date for predetermined price. See also futures

free ride: to enjoy the benefits of a good without paying for it.

free rider: any entity that free rides.

full‐bodied coins: 1) specie; 2) coins that derive their monetary value from the intrinsic value of the gold, silver, copper (or occasionally other metal) they contain rather than from a legal tender provision; non‐token coins.

fundamental value: the rational value of an asset based on its intrinsic characteristics and interest rates.

future value: the principal, par value, or face value of a bond or other debt instrument, so called because that is the monetary sum promised to be paid in the future.

futures: a type of derivative, specifically a forward contract that has been standardized and trades on an exchange.

gold: a metallic element with symbol Au and atomic number 79 used, among other things, to create full‐bodied and token coins. See also specie

good: a product or service that someone values greater than zero, that people are willing to pay in order to obtain. See also bad

government bond: a bond issued by a national or municipal (sub‐national) government. See also municipal bond; sovereign bond

government expenditure (G): 1) money spent by the government on final goods (i.e., not simply redistributed to citizens via Social Security or other social programs); 2) one of the major components of aggregate output (Y).

government failure: the inability of a government to meet one or more of its goals due to its own inadequacy. See also regulatory capture

gross domestic product (GDP): one of the most widely used estimates of aggregate output (Y). 12 | P a g e

Hamilton’s Rule: a rule developed by Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton (1755‐1804) during the Panic of 1792 that instructs central banks or other lenders of last resort to lend freely at a penalty rate of interest to any entity that can post sufficient collateral.

health insurance: an insurance policy that indemnifies policyholders if a covered event, such as an illness or hospitalization, occurs while the policy is in effect.

history of economic thought: the study of past beliefs of economists. See also economic history

honor: archaic term meaning to make payment.

human capital: the ability of individuals to create goods.

hybrid corporation: a corporation that is partly owned by stockholders and partly by customers; 2) a corporation that is part joint‐stock and part mutual.

hybrid failures: intricate combinations of market failures and government failures.

illiquid: the condition of an asset that cannot be sold in timely manner at or close to its fundamental value. See also illiquidity, liquid, liquidity

illiquidity: the state of being illiquid. See also liquid, liquidity

imports: goods produced abroad but consumed domestically or purchased abroad by citizens of the importing nation (e.g. tourism).

income: money that is incoming, that flows into an entity. See also expenditure

indemnify: to compensate for a damage or loss actually incurred.

inflation: sustained increases in the price level.

initial public offering (IPO): an offering of shares in itself by a business entity to members of the public with the aid of an investment bank or other intermediary.

in‐kind loan: the lending of a specific good rather than of money.

inland bill: a short‐dated financial instrument drawn on a domestic entity. See also bill of exchange

insolvency: the inability of an entity to pay legitimate demands on it, either from bankruptcy or illiquidity.

insurance: a mechanism for spreading risks, typically in an actuarially or scientifically sound manner, through the issuance of insurance policies.

insurance agent: an agent hired by an insurance company or other insurer to sell its insurance policies and to provide basic customer service.

insurance company: a business entity, typically in the form of a corporation, that acts as an insurer. 13 | P a g e

insurance policy: a contract specifying the terms upon which an insurer promises to indemnify the policyholder or insured for some loss.

insured: the entity reimbursed when/if some contingency specified in an insurance policy occurs. See also policyholder

insurer: the issuer of an insurance policy.

instrument: 1) a financial instrument; 2) a monetary policy tool.

interest: 1) the opportunity cost of money; 2) a rental charge for the use of money.

interest‐only loan: a loan in which the borrower repays no principal, only interest, forever (perpetuity) or for some pre‐specified period.

interest rate: 1) the interest (promised or received) over some period, typically a year, divided by the principal of a bond or other loan, generally expressed as a percentage; 2) yield. See also rate of return

intermediary: any entity, but typically a business entity, that brokers exchanges between lenders and borrowers. See also banks, insurers

intermediation: 1) the function of an intermediary; 2) the process of brokering exchanges between borrowers and lenders. See also disintermediation

investment: 1) an asset purchased by an investor with the aim of earning a profit; 2) a major component of aggregate output (Y) that measures purchases of machines, factories, and inventory by businesses (I).

investment bank: a type of bank owned and/or run by investment bankers that engages in brokerage, issuance of securities, and merger and acquisition consulting.

investment banker: a banker primarily engaged in brokerage, issuance of securities, and merger and acquisition consulting.

investment banking: the activities of an investment banker.

investor: an entity that intends to earn a profit by buying, holding, or selling a financial instrument such as a bond or equity.

IOU: a short‐dated debt instrument, like a promissory note, so called because “I owe you.”

issuance: the act of issuing.

issue: a thing, typically a bank note, coin, deposit, insurance policy, or security, issued.

issuer: any entity that issues (v.) any type of issue (n.).

joint‐stock company: an unincorporated or unchartered business entity owned by stockholders. See also joint‐stock corporation

joint‐stock corporation: a type of corporation owned by stockholders. See also hybrid corporation, joint‐stock company, mutual corporation

journal: a type of double‐entry account book that tracks transactions chronologically first, then by category.

ledger: a type of double‐entry account book that tracks transactions by category first, then chronologically within each category.

legal tender: 1) an obligation created and enforced by governments on entities to accept a specific medium of exchange at its face value in either a) all debts public and private (full tender) or b) all public debts (public tender); 2) any medium of exchange that enjoys full legal tender status. See also fiat money

lemons problem: a famous example of adverse selection and asymmetric information wherein buyers of used vehicles pay too much for unreliable automobiles, trucks, and so forth.

lender: any entity that provides principal to a borrower in exchange for repayment of the principal plus interest in the future.

lender of last resort: a central bank or other monetary authority charged with lending to entities in the wake of a financial crisis or panic when other sources of loans are less or completely unavailable due to high degrees of risk and/or uncertainty.

liability run: when depositors, lenders, or other creditors call or refuse to renew loans to an entity, such as a bank. See also bank run

liabilities: anything owed by one entity to another. See also demand liabilities

life insurance: an insurance policy that indemnifies a policyholder or beneficiary if a covered event, such as the death of the insured, occurs when the policy is in effect. See term life, whole life

limited liability (n): a common feature in charters that protects stockholders’ personal wealth in the event of the corporation’s bankruptcy.

liquid: the condition of an asset that can be easily or quickly sold for cash at close to its monetary value. See also illiquid, liquidity

liquidity: 1) the state of being liquid; 2) cash issued by a central bank or other monetary authority to render assets more liquid. See also illiquid 15 | P a g e

loan: a type of contract whereby a borrower promises to repay to a lender the principal sum borrowed plus interest.

Lockean government: a government ostensibly dedicated to the protection of the lives, liberty, and property of its citizenry.

long‐dated: having more than a year to maturity but not a perpetuity.

loss: 1) the sale of an asset at less than its purchase price; 2) diminution of the monetary value of an asset for which indemnification from an insurer on an insurance policy is sought; 3) the negative difference between a business entity’s total revenues and its total costs. See also profit

Madisonian constitution: a frame of government that limits tyranny through the use of checks and balances or the diffusion of power over multiple branches or levels of government.

management: 1) all of the managers of an entity; 2) the art and science of efficiently operating large, complex organizations, especially joint‐stock corporations.

manager: an individual charged with administering, running, or operating a business entity or organization.

market capitalization: the monetary value of a corporation calculated by multiplying the price of one of its shares by the total number of shares outstanding.

market failure: the inability of a market to achieve one or more of its goals due to its own inadequacy. See also asset bubbles, asymmetric information, externalities, market power, public goods

markets: wherever or how ever entities exchange goods at prices determined primarily by supply and demand.

maturity: the date when a debt instrument’s principal falls due and needs to be paid lest a default be declared.

media of exchange: anything that circulates hand to hand as cash money. See also bank notes, bills of credit, checking deposits, Federal Reserve notes

merger: the balance sheet consolidation of two business entities, typically of similar size, the result of which is a new, larger entity.

monetary authority: the central bank, currency board, or other government agency charged with developing and implementing a nation’s monetary policy, including the money supply and interest rates.

monetary policy: the actions of monetary authorities, such as central banks, designed to influence the money supply and interest rates.

monetary value: the price or worth of something in terms of money, as opposed to use value. 16 | P a g e

money: 1) physical media of exchange; 2) abstract unit of account; 3) long‐term store of value. See also base money, bills of credit, cash, circulation, coins, commodity money, currency, deposits, Federal Reserve Notes, fiat money, specie

money of account: monetary values represented in account books.

money supply: the total monetary value of all the money in actual circulation or use in an economy.

mortgage: a type of loan wherein the borrower pledges real estate as collateral.

municipal bond: a type of government bond issued by a sub‐national government such as a state, county, or city.

mutual corporation: a type of for profit business corporation owned by its customers, typically its depositors or policyholders. See also credit union, mutual savings bank

mutual savings bank: a type of savings bank or thrift owned by its depositors but not chartered as a credit union. See also mutual corporation

negative equity: when the net worth of an entity is less than zero. Indicative of bankruptcy or insolvency.

negative externalities: a market failure that occurs when the full costs of a good are not incorporated in its price, as in the case, for example, of pollution. See also positive externalities

negotiable: transferable from one entity to another by sale, gift, inheritance, or other means.

negotiable certificate of deposit (NCD): a large denomination certificate of deposit that can be bought and sold like a bond.

net exports: the monetary value of exports minus the monetary value of imports.

net worth: the sum of the monetary value of an entity’s assets and liabilities. See also negative equity

nominal price: the price of a good in current dollars; 2) prices of goods not adjusted for changes in the price level.

non‐profit: an organization that is designed not to earn any profits. See also for profit, not‐for‐profit

not‐for‐profit: an organization that may earn profits but that is not primarily oriented toward doing so. See also for profit, non‐profit

opportunity cost: the inevitable cost incurred by entities when they choose an activity, thereby precluding the completion of another activity at the same time. 17 | P a g e

option holder: the owner of one or more options.

option contract: See options

options: a class of derivatives including call options and put options.

organization: a group of individuals working closely together towards a common goal. See also non‐ profit, not‐for‐profit

over‐the‐counter: any market for trading securities outside of a formal exchange, typically coordinated by brokers and/or dealers.

owe: to be obliged to repay, usually a sum of money; 2) to possess but not have legal title of ownership of.

own: 1) to possess; 2) to have legal title to or the legal right to sell, lease, or enjoy.

owner: an entity that owns a business entity or asset. See also principal, stockholder

ownership: the state or condition of owning (v).

panic: See financial panic

Panic of 1792: a financial panic that originated in the government bond market that was successfully thwarted by the application of Hamilton’s Rule.

Panic of 1819: a financial panic that led to a deep recession and a re‐alignment of U.S. political parties.

Panic of 1837: a financial panic that led to a long, deep recession.

paper money: a generic term for any type of money composed of paper, including fiat monies and convertible monies such as bank notes.

partners: the individuals who own a partnership.

partnership: a type of business entity owned by two or more individuals called partners.

payer: the entity upon which a draft is drawn, typically the drawer’s debtor.

perpetual succession: a privilege of corporations to change their owners/stockholders without having to reconstitute, as partnerships traditionally had to do whenever a partner joined or left the business entity.

perpetuity: 1) a financial instrument with no maturity date; 2) an interest‐only loan.

personal estate: any asset owned by an individual that is not real estate.

policyholder: the owner of an insurance contract. See also insured 18 | P a g e

positive externalities: a market failure that occurs when the full societal benefits of a good are not incorporated in its price, as in the case, for example, of education. See also negative externalities

premiums: the price a policyholder must pay to effect an insurance contract.

present value: the price of an asset or other good today (at the present).

price: the monetary value of a good determined by the interaction of supply and demand in a market.

price level: the average of all nominal prices in an economy. See also real prices, relative prices

principal: 1) a sum lent or invested upon which interest or rate of return are calculated; 2) the, or one of the, owners of an entity.

principal‐agent problem: a specific type of moral hazard that occurs when an agent acts in its own best interest rather than in the interest of the owner(s). See also agency costs

private bank: 1) a bank operating without a charter; 2) a bank that manages the assets of wealthy entities, typically individuals.

private banker: 1) an individual or a member of a partnership in an unchartered bank, i.e., private bank (1); 2) a banker in a private bank.

product: a physical thing or contract that a business entity creates, produces, makes, manufactures, or grows

profit: the positive difference between a business entity’s total revenues and its total costs. See also loss

promissory note: a short‐dated negotiable debt instrument such as an IOU.

primary reserves: See reserves

project: 1) any specific task aimed at achieving a goal; 2) in business, any specific actions taken in an attempt to earn a profit.

public: 1) government owned; 2) privately owned by stockholders who are members of the public, as in initial public offering or public company.

public company: 1) a business entity that is owned by private individuals (members of the public), typically stockholders who can trade their equity stakes in the company publically; 2) a joint‐stock company or corporation. 19 | P a g e

public goods: a market failure that arises when it is not in the interest of any business entity to supply a specific good, like national defense, because the entity cannot easily profit from its provision because such goods are non‐excludable (there is no way to force free riders to pay) and non‐rivalrous (consumption by one does not prevent consumption by others).

put option: a type of option derivative that gives the option holder the right but not the obligation to sell some predetermined asset at a predetermined strike price. See also option, call option

quarter: a quarter of a year or three months, typically January, February, March; April, May, June; July, August, September; October, November, December.

quarterly: once every quarter. See also annually, semiannually.

rate of interest: See interest rate

rate of return (ROR): 1) the ratio of the money lost or gained on an investment relative to the principal invested over some period, typically a quarter or year; 2) return on investment (ROI).

recovery: a state of the economy following a recession during which aggregate output, typically as measured by Gross Domestic Product, increases toward a previous peak.

real estate: a type of asset consisting of land and any improvements thereto, such as buildings, drainage or sewage systems, roads, wells, and so forth. See also personal estate

real price: the price of a good adjusted for changes in the price level.

recession: a state of the economy during which aggregate output, typically as measured by Gross Domestic Product, declines.

regulated firm: a business entity that is subject to the regulations of one or more regulators.

regulations: a set of rules prescribed by a regulator describing the business activities that can and/or cannot lawfully be undertaken by a business entity.

regulator: an entity, usually a government, that makes and/or enforces regulations.

regulatory capture: the condition of a regulated firm taking control of its regulator in whole or part.

relative prices: the ratio of the nominal price of one good to the nominal price of another.

rent seeking: attempts to gain something for nothing by manipulating the government to subsidize or otherwise support special interests at the expense of the commonweal.

required reserves: See reserve requirements

reserves: 1) cash held by banks to meet calls on their demand liabilities, such as checking deposits and bank notes; 2) any asset that banks own to help manage their liquidity. See also required reserves, secondary reserves. 20 | P a g e

reserve requirements: reserves mandated by some regulator or law, typically expressed as a percentage of a bank’s demand liabilities.

resources: 1) goods, such as copper, gold, silver, oil, diamonds, created by nature rather than by entities; 2) in a loose sense, any asset or good, including more intangible ones like time.

returns: money that returns to an investor on an investment. See also rate of return

revenues: income from any source, including the sale of goods or returns on investments

risk: known volatility in the rate of return. See also uncertainty

risk appetite: the amount of risk an investor can tolerate. See also risk aversion

risk averse: avoidance of risk even at a high cost.

risk aversion: the practice of being risk averse.

risks: 1) the risk represented by an entity seeking a loan or insurance; 2) the entity itself.

risky: characterized by excessive risk, either for the expected rate of return or for the investor’s risk appetite.

Savings and Loan association: a type of savings bank with a Savings and Loan charter designed to modernize the older Building and Loan association form.

savings bank: a generic term for any bank that focuses on making mortgage loans and issuing savings deposits, including but not limited to credit unions, mutual savings banks, and Savings and Loan associations.

savings deposit: 1) a type of time deposit in a bank that earns interest in exchange for a decrease in its liquidity.

secondary reserves: a sort of back up form of reserves held by banks that earns income but is liquid (readily convertible into cash).

securities: any negotiable financial instrument, including debt, equity, and hybrid instruments.

securities exchange: See exchange

seller: the entity in a trade that gives up a non‐monetary good and receives money in exchange.

semiannually: twice a year or every six months. See annually, quarterly

service: a good consumed at the point of contact with the service provider including but not limited to consulting, education, healthcare, and retail. See also financial services

share: 1) a financial instrument representing an ownership or equity stake in a joint‐stock corporation; 2) an equity. 21 | P a g e

shareholder: See stockholder

short: 1) to sell an asset under the expectation of buying it back later at a lower price; 2) borrowing assets, typically equities, selling them in the expectation of a price decrease, then buying them back later to repay the in‐kind loan.

short‐dated: having less than a year to maturity.

short sale: 1) traditionally, a transaction whereby an entity shorts an asset; 2) more recently, the sale of a home for less than the outstanding mortgage balance.

shorting: the process of making a short sale.

sight draft: a draft due upon its acceptance for payment by the payer. See also time draft

silent run: a type of bank run or liability run characterized by the refusal of creditors to renew short‐ term loans to a bank or other entity.

silver: a metallic element with the symbol Ag and the atomic number 47 used to create full‐bodied and token coins. See also specie

single entry: a simple method of keeping accounts that entails listing the major attributes (e.g., date, price, counterparty) of exchanges.

sole proprietor: the owner of a sole proprietorship.

sole proprietorship: a type of business entity owned and operated by a single individual.

sovereign bond: a government bond issued by a sovereign national government. See also Treasury bond

special interests: entities that engage in rent seeking or other activities designed to subsidize them at the expense of others, or the common weal.

specialty: a type of contract where the parties agree that payment will be made in a specific medium of exchange, such as gold or silver.

specie: full‐bodied (i.e., non‐token) gold or silver coins. See also bullion

speculate: to engage in speculation.

speculation: an attempt to earn quick profits by buying assets, typically securities, low and selling them high or vice versa, as in shorting. 22 | P a g e

spread: 1) the difference between a dealer’s bid price and its ask price for a security; 2) the difference between what a bank receives for its assets and pays for its liabilities.

stock: 1) synonymous with equity (1) and share (1); 2) archaic for government bond.

stock exchange: See exchange (n.)

stock market: 1) exchange (n.); 2) any market in which stocks are traded, including exchanges but also over‐the‐counter or broker‐dealer markets.

stock market crash: a type of financial crisis characterized by rapid decreases in the prices of a broad swath of equities.

stockholder: an owner of one or more shares (stocks, equities) in a joint‐stock corporation.

stockjobbing: buying and selling securities in order to speculate.

stockjobber: an archaic term for any entity that engages in stockjobbing.

store of value: any asset that maintains most or all of its monetary value over long periods of time, e.g. years.

strike price: the predetermined price at which an option derivative can be contractually exercised by the option holder.

swap: a type of derivative whereby two parties exchange one asset for another on an on‐going basis according to the value of some underlying asset, for example dollars for yen.

subsidize: to grant a subsidy to an entity.

subsidy: resources, typically but not always money, given to an entity, usually by a government.

sunk costs: costs that have already been incurred and cannot be recouped.

supply: the quantity of a good that sellers make available at any given price. See also demand

suspension of specie payments: when banks of issue ceased converting their bank notes and deposits into specie due to their bankruptcy, insolvency, or a general suspension of payments in times of war or financial panic.

term life: an insurance policy that indemnifies a policyholder or beneficiary if the insured dies during the duration (term) of the contract. See also whole life

thrift: a depository institution with a community bank focus such as credit unions and savings banks.

time deposit: a type of deposit, like a savings deposit or a certificate of deposit, that cannot be withdrawn by the depositor until a specified period has elapsed or a penalty had been paid. 23 | P a g e

time draft: a draft due some days, weeks, or months after its acceptance for payment by the payer. See also sight draft

token coinage: a type of fiat money that takes the form of coins that contain metals worth considerably less than the coin’s face value

trade: an exchange of goods, typically between two entities.

transaction deposits: See checking deposits

Treasury bill: a short‐dated sovereign bond issued by the U.S. Treasury to help manage the U.S. government’s cash flow needs.

Treasury bond: a sovereign bond issued by the U.S. Treasury to fund U.S. government budget deficits.

unbanked: entities, typically individuals, who do not bank (v.).

uncertainty: unknown/unknowable volatility in the rate of return. See also risk

underlying asset: an asset that contractually determines the price of another asset.

unit bank: a bank that does not, probably because it lawfully cannot, operate any branches.

unit of account: 1) the abstract measuring rod against which monetary values are determined; 2) money of account.

universal bank: a type of bank that combines the functions of a depository institution with those of an investment bank.

usance: the period between the issuance or acceptance of a financial instrument, such as a bill of exchange, and its maturity or due date.

use value: the worth or utility of a good stemming from its actual utilization or consumption.

utility: an economic concept measuring an entity’s relative satisfaction with a good.

whole life: a life insurance policy that indemnifies a policyholder or beneficiary when the insured dies, if the policy is current or has been paid up, and that can be cashed or borrowed against using the cash value of the policy as collateral. See also term life

yield: 1) the current yield, or the income (typically the annual dividends or coupons) from some investment divided by the investment’s current price; 2) the yield to maturity or discounted cash flow rate of return. 24 | P a g e

================================================================================

Annual return: The profit or loss on an investment over a one-year period. APR (Annual Percentage Rate) The cost of borrowing money on a yearly basis, expressed as a percentage rate.

Asset: An item with economic value, such as stock or real estate. Associate’s degree A degree usually awarded for at least two years of full- time academic study beyond high school. ATM Stands for “automated teller machine,” a machine that lets bank customers perform basic transactions, such as deposits and withdrawals. ATM balance inquiry fee A fee you may be charged if you check your prepaid card balance at an ATM or if you call customer service to ask about your balance.

Automatic or direct debit: A bill-paying method you set up with the merchant or service provider. merchant or service provider (for example, your cell phone provider or utility company) with your checking account information and they take the funds from your account each time the bill is due (for example, every month). B Bachelor’s degree A degree usually awarded for at least four years of full-time academic study beyond high school.

Bank: A financial institution and business that accepts deposits, makes loans, and handles other financial transactions.

Beneficiary: Someone or something named to receive proceeds or benefits. context, it’s the person, charity, trust, or estate designated by the policyholder to receive the policy’s benefits or payments.

Benefit: Something that an employer, the government, or an insurance company provides that’s often used only for a particular purpose, such as food or medical costs. Also: An advantage; something that is good.

Bill-payment service: A service you set up with a bank, credit union, prepaid card account, or a business you owe money to that lets you pay bills online or through a mobile app. Bloom’s Taxonomy Named for educational psychologist Dr.

Benjamin: Bloom who, in 1956, led the creation of a framework for classifying educational goals and promoting higher order thinking skills when designing learning activities. to categorize activities by their level of challenge and complexity. in 2011 by a group of practitioners and researchers to promote a more dynamic conception of classification.

Bimonthly (semi-monthly): Twice a month.

Bond: A type of debt. buy a bond, you’re lending to the issuer, which may be a government, municipality, or corporation. promises to pay you a specified rate of interest during the life of the bond and to repay the principal — also known as the bond’s face value or par value — when the bond “matures,” or comes due after a set period.

Borrow: To receive something on loan with the understanding that you will return it.

Borrower: A person or organization that borrows something, especially money from a bank or other financial institution.

Budget: A plan that outlines what money you expect to earn or receive (your income) and how you will save it or spend it (your expenses) for a given period of time; also called a spending plan.

Business: The activity of making, buying, or selling goods or providing services in exchange for money.

Business income: The money a business receives for selling its goods and services is its income.

Buy: To get something by paying money for it.

Buying plan: A plan people use to identify and consider factors like cost, features, and choices as they prepare to make a purchase.

Buying power: Also called purchasing power, it is the amount of goods and services that can be purchased by a given unit of currency, taking into account the effect of inflation. C Capital gain The profit that comes from selling an investment for more than you paid for it.

Capital loss: The loss that comes from selling an investment for less than you paid for it.

Card replacement fee: A fee your prepaid card provider may charge to replace your card if it is lost, stolen, or damaged.

Career: A profession that may span your lifetime and includes your education, training, professional memberships, volunteering, and full history of paid work. for occupation.

Cash: Paper or coin money.

Certificate of deposit (CD): A savings tool from a bank or credit union that has a fixed maturity date and a fixed interest rate.

Checking account: An account at a bank (sometimes called a share draft account at a credit union) that allows you to make deposits, pay bills, and make withdrawals.

Claim: The insured’s request for payment due to loss incurred and covered under the policy agreement.

Closed-loop prepaid card: This type of card can only be used at certain locations. For example, a closed-loop card might be good only at a specific store or group of stores or on your public transportation system.

Coin: A small metal disc that we use as money.

Coinsurance: Coinsurance in insurance, is the splitting or spreading of risk among multiple parties. In the U. S. insurance market, coinsurance is the joint assumption of risk between the insurer and the insured. In health insurance, coinsurance is sometimes used synonymously with copayment, but copayment is really fixed while coinsurance is a percentage that the insurer pays after the insurance policy’s deductible is exceeded up to the policy’s stop loss.

Collateral: An asset that secures a loanor other debt that a lender can take if you don’t repay the money you borrow. example, if you get a home loan, the bank’s collateral is typically your house.

Commission: An amount of money someone earns for selling something.

Comparison shopping: The practice of comparing prices, features, benefits, risks, and other characteristics of two or more similar products or services.

Compound interest: When you earn interest on both the money you save and the interest you earn.

Consumer: A person who buys or receives goods or services for personal needs or use and not for resale.

Consumer Price Index (CPI): A measure of the average change over time in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market basket of consumer goods and services. are available for the U. S. and various geographic areas.

Copayment (or copay): A fixed amount ($20, for example) you pay for a covered health care service in addition to the amount your insurer pays.

Cosigner: An individual who signs a loan, credit account, or promissory note of another person as support for the credit of the primary signer and who becomes responsible for the debt obligation.

Cost: The amount of money that is needed to pay for or buy something.

Cost-effective: To have good value for the amount of money you paid.

Cost of attendance (COA): The total amount it will cost you to go to school — usually stated as a yearly figure. COA includes tuition and fees; room and board (or a housing and food allowance); and allowances for books, supplies, transportation, loan fees, and dependent care if applicable. some miscellaneous and personal expenses.

Credit: Borrowing money, or having the right to borrow money, to buy something. means you’re using a credit card, but it might also mean that you got a loan.

Credit card: An open-ended loan that allows you to borrow money up to a certain limit and carry over an unpaid balance from month to month. fixed time to repay the loan as long as you make the minimum payment due each month. pay interest on any outstanding credit card loan balance.

Credit card statement: A summary of how you’ve used your credit card for a billing period.

Credit limit: A limit set by the credit card company on how much you can charge on the card it issued to you. credit card to make purchases up to your credit limit.

Credit Report: A summary of your credit activity and current credit situation such as loan paying history and the status of your credit accounts. these reports to help them decide if they will loan you money and what interest rates they will offer you. businesses might use your credit reports to determine whether to offer you insurance; rent a house or apartment toyou; or provide you with cable TV, Internet, utility, or cell phone service. let an employer look at your credit report, it may also be used to make employment decisions about you.

Credit score: A number created from a scoring model that uses information from your credit history.

Credit union: A cooperative financial institution that is chartered by the National Credit Union Administration (a federal independent agency) or a state government and is owned by its individual members.

Credit utilization ratio: The amount of credit a person has compared with the amount they’ve used.

Creditworthy: Financially sound enough to justify the extension of credit. D Data breach The unauthorized movement or disclosure of sensitive information to a party, usually outside the organization, that is not authorized to have or see the information. who gets the data might use it for identity theft.

Debit card: A card used to make purchases at businesses (like grocery stores and gas stations) with money in your checking account.

Debt: Money you owe another person or a business.

Debt consolidation: Consolidation means that your various debts, whether they are credit card bills or loan payments, are rolled into a new loan with one monthly payment. credit card accounts or loans, consolidation may be a way to simplify or lower payments. does not erase your debt. more by consolidating debt into another type of loan.

Deductible: The amount of expenses the insured must pay before the insurance company will contribute toward the covered item. For example, the amount you pay for covered health care services before your insurance plan starts to pay is your deductible.

Demand: A measure of how popular or necessary an item is and how many consumers want to buy it.

Depository institution: A financial institution like a bank or credit union that is authorized to accept checking and saving deposits.

Direct deposit: Money electronically sent to your bank account, credit union account, or prepaid card.

Dividend: A portion of a company’s profit paid to shareholders.

Doctoral degree: A degree usually awarded for at least three years of full-time academic work beyond a bachelor’s degree.

Donate: To give something (like money, food, or clothes) to help a person or organization.

Down payment: Initial cash payment made when something is bought on credit, such as a home or vehicle. reduces the amount of money that is borrowed. E Earn To receive money in exchange for goods or services.

Earned income: Money made from working for someone who pays you or from running a business or farm. income, wages, and tips you get from working.

Elder financial exploitation: The illegal or improper use of an older adult’s funds, property, or assets by family members, caregivers, friends, or strangers who gain their trust.

Emergency fund: A cash reserve that’s specifically set aside for unplanned expenses or financial emergencies. common examples include car repairs, home repairs, medical bills, or a loss of income.

Entrepreneur: Someone who organizes, manages, and assumes the risks of a business or enterprise.

Estate tax: A tax on the value of property you own at your death. considers everything you own or have certain interests in at the date of death. estate tax, and some states have their own estate taxes.

Exchange rate: A number that is used to compare the value of money in two different countries. example, you would use an exchange rate to figure out how many pesos or euros you could get for one U. S. dollar.

Expected family contribution: The index number schools use to determine your eligibility for federal financial aid. the financial information you provide in your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form. reported to you on your Student Aid Report. the amount of money your family will have to pay for college nor is it the amount of federal student aid you will receive. school uses to calculate the amount of federal student aid you are eligible to receive. F FAFSA – Free Application for Federal Student AidThe Free Application for Federal Student Aid form is used to determine how much a student and his or her family are eligible to receive in federal financial aid. used to determine a student’s eligibility for state and school- based aid and also may influence how much private aid a student receives.

Federal income tax: The federal government collects taxes based on the earnings of individuals and businesses, called an income tax. pays for national programs such as defense, foreign affairs, law enforcement, and interest on the national debt.

Federal minimum wage: The lowest national wage as established by law in the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). federal government and have terms and conditions that are set by law. include benefits that private student loans don’t usually offer. include lower interest rates, repayment plans based on income, and possible loan forgiveness for people who choose to work for a certain amount of time in government or for certain not-for-profit organizations or teach in a low- income school.

Federal Work-Study: A program that provides part-time jobs to help you earn money to pay for college expenses.

Federal Insurance: Contributions Act (FICA) A law that requires taxes to be deducted from your pay to contribute to Social Security and Medicare; your employer contributes the same amount on your behalf.

Financial aid: Money given in the form of grants, work-study, loans, and scholarships to help pay for post-secondary tuition and fees, as well as related expenses such as room and board, books, supplies, and transportation.

Financial capability: The ability to manage financial resources effectively, understand and apply financial knowledge, demonstrate healthy money habits, and successfully complete financial tasks as planned.

Financial emergencies: Expenses that come up unexpectedly, are very important, and need attention right away.

Financial well-being: The ability to meet all financial needs, today and over time; feel secure in the financial future; absorb a financial shock; and have the financial freedom to make choices to enjoy life.

Fixed expenses: Expenses, like bills, that must be paid each month and generally cost the same amount. Some fixed expenses, like a utility bill, may also be variable because the amount changes each month depending on usage.

Foreclosure relief scam: Scheme to take your money or your house often by making a false promise of saving you from foreclosure; includes mortgage loan modification scams.

Foreign transaction fee: A fee your card provider charges when you use your prepaid card in a foreign country or to pay in aforeign currency. usually a percentage of your purchase, withdrawal, or other transaction, rather than a flat fee. currency conversion fee. the United States, so check your cardholder agreement before you travel. Form W-4 Employee’s Withholding Allowance Certificate A form that the employee completes and the employer uses to determine the amount of income tax to withhold.

Fraud: An illegal act that occurs when people try to trick you out of your personal information and your money. G Generational wealth Wealth that is transferred from parents or relatives to children or other members of their family. the form of cash, property, or anything else that has financial value, as well as investments in children’s education, like paying for college or vocational training. intergenerational wealth. which a worker is hired to work on demand. a type of short-term job, and some workers pursue gigs as a self-employment option.

Gig economy: Generally, an informal term for situations where people are hired for single projects or tasks or for short-term jobs, often through a digital marketplace.

Goal: Something, such as an outcome, you wish to achieve or accomplish in a specific amount of time.

Goods: Objects people want that they can touch or hold, such as toys, clothes, and food.

Government benefits card: A prepaid card used by a government agency to pay certain government benefits, such as unemployment insurance.

Grace period: The number of days you have to pay your bill in full before finance charges start. Without this period, you may have to pay interest from the date you use your card or when the purchase is posted to your account.

Grant: A type of financial aid that does not have to be repaid, I unless, for example, you withdraw from school and you need to pay back some of the grant money; often need-based.

Gross income: Total pay before taxes and other deductions are taken out. H Health savings account An account at a bank, insurance company, or other financial institution that lets you set aside pre-tax money, sometimes directly from your paycheck, to pay for eligible medical expenses. Homeowner’s insurance Covers a home’s structure and the personal belongings inside in the event of loss or theft; helps pay for repairs and replacement.

Identity theft: Using your personal information — such as your name, Social Security number, or credit card number — without your permission. money by pretending to be someone you know or trust, like a sheriff; local, state, or federal government employee; a family member; or charity organization.

Impulse purchase: Buying things without having planned for them beforehand. money than you can afford.

Inactivity fee: A fee charged if you don’t use your card for a certain period of time. triggers an inactivity fee varies. inactivity fees.

Income: Money earned or received such as wages or salaries, tips, commissions, contracted pay, government transfer payments, dividends on investments, tax refunds, gifts, and inheritances.

Income tax: Federal, state, and local taxes on income, both earned (salaries, wages, tips, commissions) and unearned (interest, dividends). both personal and business or corporate income taxes. all states and localities have income taxes. prices of goods and services increase over time.

Insurance: The practice or arrangement in which a company or government agency provides a guarantee of compensation for specified loss, damage, illness, or death in return for payment of a premium.

Insured: The person, group, or organization whose life or property is covered by an insurance policy.

Insurer: A person or company offering insurance policies in return for premiums; person or organization that insures.

Interest: A fee charged by a lender, and paid by a borrower, for the use of money. credit union may also pay you interest if you deposit money in certain types of accounts.

Interest capitalization: Interest capitalization occurs when unpaid interest is added to the principal amount of your student loan. interest on your federal student loan is not paid as it accrues (during periods when you are responsible for paying the interest), your lender may capitalize the unpaid interest. principal amount due on the loan. on that higher principal balance, increasing the amount of interest charged and the overall cost of the loan.

Interest rate: A percentage of a sum borrowed that is charged by a lender or merchant for letting you use its money. also pay you an interest rate if you deposit money in certain types of accounts.

Invest: To commit money to earn a financial return; the strategic purchase or sale of assets to produce income or capital gains.

Investment: Something you spend your money on that you expect will earn a financial return.

Investment fees: What you pay to use investment products and services.

Irregular income: Inconsistent amounts of money you receive through work or investments; both the schedule and the amount may vary. J Job A specific arrangement where you do tasks for an employer. L Lend The act of giving something to someone with the understanding that they will give it back to you.

Lender: An organization or person that lends money with the expectation that it will be repaid, generally with interest.

Liability: Something that is a disadvantage, money owed, or a debt or obligation according to law.

Liquidity: A measure of the ability and ease with which you can access and use your money.

Loan: Money that needs to be repaid by the borrower, generally with interest.

Long-term goals: Goals that can take more than five years to achieve. M Mail fraud scam Letters that look real but contain fake promises. A common warning sign is a letter asking you to send money or personal information now to receive something of value later. Master’s degree A degree usually awarded for one or two years of full-time academic study beyond a bachelor’s degree.

Maturity date: The date that an investor’s investment is to be paid back in full in accordance with its agreement. of deposit (CD) contains a maturity date provision obligating the financial institution to repay an investor sums invested plus interest on a specified date.

Medicaid: The single largest source of health coverage in the United States; it is a joint federal and state program that, together with the Children’s Health Insurance Program, provides health coverage to low income Americans, including children, pregnant women, parents, seniors, and individuals with disabilities.

Medicare: A health insurance program for people who are 65 or older, certain younger people with disabilities, and people with permanent kidney failure requiring dialysis or a transplant; financed by deductions from wages and managed by the federal Social Security Administration.

Military Lending Act (MLA): A federal law that provides special protections for active duty servicemembers, like capping interest rates on many loan products. MLA includes servicemembers on active Guard or active Reserve duty, as well as spouses and certain dependents.

Minimum payment: The minimum dollar amount that must be paid each month on a loan, line of credit, or other debt.

Minimum wage: A wage set by contract or by law as the lowest that may be paid to employees.

Mobile banking: A service that allows you to use your smartphone or tablet to manage your bank or credit union account without the aid of a teller. Generally, you can deposit checks into your account using this service, but not cash.

Money: You can use money to buy goods and services. looks different in different places around the world. account Federally insured account at a bank or credit union that offers a higher rate of interest than a savings account, allows for a limited number of transactions monthly, and may require a minimum deposit or minimum account balance.

Money order: A money order can be used instead of a check. buy a money order to pay a business or other party.

Moral hazard: The idea that you are less likely to be careful when you are shielded from the consequences of your actions.

Mortgage: Mortgage loans are used to buy a home or to borrow money against the value of a home you already own.

Mutual fund: A company that poolsmoney from many investors and invests the money in securities such as stocks, bonds, and short-term debt. portfolio. in mutual funds. represents an investor’s part ownership in the fund and the income it generates. N Needs Basic things people must have to survive (such as food, clothing, and shelter), resources they may need to do their jobs (such as reliable transportation and the tools of the trade), and resources to help build and protect their money and property so they can meet future needs (such as emergency savings and insurance).

Net income: Amount of money you receive in your paycheck after taxes and other deductions are taken out; also called take- home pay. O Occupation Describes a type of work with associated tasks, education and training, typical wages, work settings, and more. be a synonym for career.

Online banking: A service that allows you to use a secure website to manage your bank or credit union account without the aid of a teller. transfer money between accounts using this service, you generally cannot deposit checks or cash.

Online or mobile bill payment: A bill-paying method you set up with your bank or credit union. banking to give your bank the merchant or service provider’s information, and your bank makes the payment according to the amount and schedule you set up. may or may not also be offered on a bank’s or credit union’s mobile application.

Open-loop prepaid card: This type of card has a network logo on it.

Examples of networks are: Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. cards can be used at any location that accepts that card type. open-loop cards.

Opportunity cost: Cost of the next best use of your money or time when you choose to buy or do one thing rather than another.

Out-of-pocket cost: The expenses and losses that are not reimbursed by insurance. deductibles, copayments, and amounts paid for services or repairs that are excluded from coverage. It’s the amount paid before insurance coverage kicks in.

Overdraft: An overdraft occurs when you don’t have enough money in your account to cover a transaction, but the bank pays the transaction anyway. P Paper check A paper order to a bank or credit union to pay someone from a checking account.

Pay period: The amount of time that an employee works before being paid — for example, a week or a month.

Paycheck: A check for your salary or wages made out to you.

Payroll card: A type of prepaid card you get from your employer that you receive your paycheck on.

Payroll tax: Taxes taken from your paycheck, including Social Security and Medicare taxes.

Phishing scam: When someone tries to get you to give them personal information, such as through an email or text message, often by impersonating a business or government agency. of as “fishing for confidential information” Policy In the insurance context, it is a written contract between the insured and the insurer.

Policyholder: The individual or firm that acquires and wants protection from the risk and generally in whose name an insurance policy is written. is not necessarily the insured. For instance, life insurance policies might be bought by employers of key employees, or a person may buy and be the holder of a life insurance policy on their spouse. such cases, the buyer is the policyholder.

Post-secondary education: Includes all forms of schooling after high school, not just college. certificate (non-degree) A certificate or credential that an educational institution awards after a student completes formal schooling lasting from a few weeks to two years after high school. A certificate is not a degree.

Premium: The amount of money that has to be paid for an insurance policy.

Prepaid card: A card on which you load money in advance to spend. look like a debit or credit card, there are differences. card is linked to your checking account. credit card, you’re borrowing money. linked to a checking account or credit union share draft account. In most cases, you can’t spend more money than you have already loaded onto your prepaid card.

Prepayment: Payment of all or part of a debt before it comes due.

Prepayment penalty: A fee lenders can charge borrowers if they pay off a loan early.

Principal: In the lending context, principal is the amount of money that you originally received from the lender and agreed to pay back on the loan with interest. In the investment context, it is the amount of money you contribute with the expectation of receiving income.

Private college or university: (nonprofit) A higher education institution that is primarily supported by private funds. for-profit schools and schools associated with a religious organization.

Private student loans: These loans are from private organizations, such as banks and credit unions, which set their own terms and conditions. generally more expensive than federal loans. \Profit Money that is made in a business after all the costs and expenses are paid.

Property tax: Taxes on property, especially real estate, but also can be on boats, automobiles (often paid along with license fees), recreational vehicles, and business inventories.

Protect: To make sure that somebody or something isn’t harmed, injured, damaged, or lost.

Public college or university: A higher education institution whose programs and activities are operated by publicly elected or appointed school officials and which is supported by public funds.

Public service announcement: (PSA) An announcement or message delivered, often on radio or television, for the good of the public. R Raise An increase in the amount of wages or salary.

Rate of return: The profit or loss on an investment expressed as a percentage.

Rebate: A rebate reduces the price of consumer goods. rebates require consumers to pay the full cost of an item at the time of purchase, then to send documentation to the manufacturer or retailer to receive a rebate by mail.

Redlining: A term used for an illegal practice where people living in a certain area or neighborhood are not given the same access to loans and other credit services as people in other areas or neighborhoods on the basis of race, color, national origin, or some other prohibited reason.

Regular income: A set amount of money you receive at the same time each week or month.

Repayment: Paying back money you borrowed.

Return: The profit or loss on an investment.

Risk: Exposure to danger, harm, or loss.

Romance scam: When a new friend says they like or love you, but they really just want your money — and may not be who they say they are. S SalaryCompensation received by an employee for services performed. sum paid for a specific period of time worked, such as weekly or monthly.

Sales tax: A tax on retail products based on a set percentage of the retail price.

Save: Setting something, like money, aside to use in the future.

Savings: Money you have set aside in a secure place, such as in a bank account, that you can use for future emergencies or to make specific purchases.

Savings account: An account at a bank (sometimes called a share savings account at a credit union) used to set aside money and that pays you interest.

Savings goal: The amount of money you plan to put aside for a specific purpose.

Scam: A dishonest trick used to cheat somebody out of something important, like money. can happen in person, through social media, or by phone, email, postal mail, or text. based on academic or other achievements to help pay education expenses. Scholarships generally don’t have to be repaid.

Secured credit card: Credit card that typically requires a cash security deposit. deposit, the higher the credit limit. used to build credit history.

Secured loans: Loans in which your property (a thing you own) is used as collateral; if you cannot pay back the loan, the lender takes your collateral to get their money back. also engage in debt collection, can file negative information on your credit report, and might sue you.

Security: An investment product such as a stock or bond.

Services: Actions that a person does for someone else, such as cutting hair, giving a medical checkup, or fixing a car.

Share: A unit of ownership, often in a company’s stock or in a mutual fund.

Short-term goals: Goals that can take a short time, or up to five years, to reach. SMART goals Goals that are specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and timebound.

Social Security: Provides benefits for retired workers and people with disabilities, as well as the unmarried children, surviving spouses, or former spouses (in certain cases) of both.

Social Security number: The nine-digit number on a Social Security card, an important piece of identification issued by the federal government that you’ll need to get a job and collect government benefits.

Spend: The act of using money to buy goods or services.

Spoofing: When a caller disguises the information shown on your caller ID to appear as though they are calling as a certain person or from a specific location. municipalities require their residents to pay a personal income tax. Generally, states use one of two methods to determine income tax the graduated income tax or the flat rate income tax. methods first require you to figure your taxable income.

Stock: A type of investment that gives people a share of ownership in a company.

Student aid report: A paper or electronic document that gives you some basic information about your eligibility for federal student aid and lists your answers to the FAFSA questions.

Student loan servicer: This is a company that collects payments on student loans, tracks loans while borrowers are in school, responds to borrowers’ questions, and handles other tasks associated with loans.

Subscription: An agreement that you make with a company to get a publication or service regularly and that you usually pay for in advance.

Supply: How much of a product is available to buy at any given time. T Tariff A tax on products imported from foreign countries. can increase the costs of those products, which ultimately can be passed on to consumers as higher prices.

Tax credit: A dollar-for-dollar reduction in a tax. directly from taxes owed. credits can reduce the amount of tax you owe or increase your tax refund, and some credits may result in a refund even if you don’t owe any tax.

Tax deduction: An amount (often a personal or business expense) that reduces income subject to tax.

Tax refund: Money owed to taxpayers when their total tax payments are greater than the total tax. government.

Tax-related identity theft: When someone steals your Social Security number to file a tax return claiming a fraudulent refund; may also be called tax-filing-related identity theft.

Taxes: Required payments of money to governments, which use the funds to provide public goods and services for the benefit of the community as a whole.

Term: A fixed or limited period of time for which something lasts or is intended to last (for example, a five-year loan, a three-year certificate of deposit, a one-year insurance policy, a 30-year mortgage).

Tip: An optional or extra payment a customer gives to an employee. Also called a gratuity.

Tip income: Money and goods received for services performed by food servers, baggage handlers, hairdressers, and others. go beyond the stated amount of the bill and are given voluntarily.

Transaction fee: A fee charged every time you use the card for a certain type of transaction. to ask about fees or read the cardholder agreement associated with your card. U Unauthorized use Transactions to your ATM, debit, or credit card that you didn’t make or approve (such as withdrawals, transfers, purchases, or charges) and for which you received no benefit.

Unbanked: Unbanked households don’t have a checking or savings account at an institution that is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA).

Underbanked: A person who has an account at a bank or credit union, but also uses an alternative financial service like a payday loan, check cashing, or a pawn shop loan.

Unearned income: Income people receive even if they don’t work for pay. include things like children’s allowances, stock dividends paid by corporations, and financial gifts.

Unsecured loan: A loan (such as most types of credit cards) that does not use property as collateral. consider these loans to be more risky than secured loans, so they may charge a higher rate of interest for them. loan is not paid back as agreed, the lender can also start debt collection, file negative information on your credit report, and might sue you. U. S. savings bond An interest-bearing savings security issued by the U. S. government for a set amount of money. V Value The amount of money that something is worth.

Variable expenses: Expenses that change in amount from month to month.

Virtual currency: A kind of electronic money. It’s a digital representation of value that is not issued by a government, such as a central bank or a public authority, but is accepted as a means of payment and can be transferred, stored, or traded electronically.

Volunteer: To do something helpful for other people without getting p W Wage Compensation received by employees for services performed. Usually, wages are computed by multiplying an hourly pay rate by the number of hours worked.

Wants: Upgrades and other things that would be nice to have but aren’t necessary for living, income, or protecting what you have.

Warranty: A manufacturer’s warranty is a promise from that company to pay for some repairs or services. specific period of time, usually a few years.

Wire transfer fraud: Tricking someone into wiring or transferring money to steal from them. example of a wire transfer fraud is the “grandparent scam.” This is when a scammer posing as a grandchild or a friend of a grandchild calls to say they are in a foreign country, or in some kind of trouble, and need money wired or sent right away. Withholding (“pay-as-you-earn” taxes) Money that employers withhold from employees’ paychecks

================================================================================

Absolute owner: This is the sole owner of a piece of property, such as a building, vehicle or piece of equipment.

Abstract of title: This is a document which summarises all the title deeds to a property such as a house. It is drawn up for the seller when a property is being sold.

Accrual rate: This is the rate by which a pension from an earnings−related occupational pension scheme builds up from one year to another. The rate is shown as a fraction or a percentage of the member's final yearly salary.

Accrued income security: This is a security (investment) which pays interest at regular intervals. When it is sold, interest may have built up and this interest will be paid to the new owner. Interest built up like this is called accrued interest.

Accumulation date: This is the date when income will be credited to a unit trust which reinvests its income (an accumulation unit), instead of paying the income out to the investors.

Ademption: This happens when someone is left something in a will, but the item no longer exists so cannot be bequeathed.

Administrator: This is someone who: • has been appointed to manage the affairs of a bankrupt business; or • has been appointed to manage the estate of someone who has died without leaving a will.

AER: This stands for annual equivalent rate. It is quoted by financial institutions, such as banks, to show how much the interest rate would be if the interest was worked out just once a year. It is intended to make it easier for people to judge how much interest they pay (or receive) when it is being worked out more than once a year. It is also intended to make it easier to compare different financial products.

Annual general meeting (AGM): This is the yearly meeting of the members of an organisation which must be held to meet legal conditions. The annual accounts are presented for approval at this meeting.

Annual management charge: This is a yearly charge made by the managers of unit trusts or investment trusts. It is usually a percentage of the value of the funds being managed.

APR: This stands for annual percentage rate. It is intended to give people a more accurate idea of how much they are being charged when they borrow money.

Arbitrage: This is borrowing money to lend out again at a higher rate of interest.

Arrangement fee: This is the fee that banks charge their customers for arranging an overdraft facility.

Assignment: This is the formal transfer of rights to something. For instance, a bank's customer may assign, to the bank, the right to receive the benefits from a life insurance policy to give the bank security for a loan.

Auditing standards: This is a report and opinion, by an independent person or firm, on an organisation's financial records.

Authorised share capital: This is the highest amount of share capital that a company can issue. The amount is set out in the company's memorandum of association. The A to Z of financial terms

Bailment: This involves transferring possession of goods from the owner to someone else. The ownership of the goods is not transferred.

Barter: This is a way of paying for things, without using money, by exchanging goods. Basic−rate tax Once you have used up all your tax allowances and all your lower−rate tax band, you pay basic−rate tax. The basic rate is 22% at the moment (2000).

Basic state pension: This is the retirement pension the Government pays to people who have paid enough national insurance contributions. Some people may receive a reduced basic state pension because they have not paid enough contributions.

Beneficiary: This is someone who benefits from a will, a trust or a life insurance policy.

Bequest: This is the difference between the bid price and the offer price.

Bill of lading: This is a document recording the goods a ship carries and the terms the goods are carried under.

Bona vacantia: This means belonging to nobody.

Book value: This is the value of a fixed asset, such as a building or machine, as recorded in an organisation's books. It is usually the amount paid for the asset less an amount for depreciation.

Buying charge: This is the charge made when you first invest in a fund such as an ISA, OEIC or unit trust.

Cancelled from inception (CFI): This phrase refers to a contract for an investment product (such as a personal pension) which has been cancelled within the 'cooling−off' period.

Capital gains tax: This is a tax charged on certain capital gains.

Capital receipt: This is money received from selling fixed assets, such as buildings or machines. The A to Z of financial terms

Capital Transfer Tax (CTT): This was introduced in the 1970s to tax money and assets given away by people during their lifetime, as well as on the estates of people who died. Its name was later changed to inheritance tax.

Card: This is the plastic credit card or cash card which banks give their customers to use.

Cardholder: This is a bank customer who has been given a credit card or cash card.

Caveat emptor: This is a Latin expression which means 'buyer beware'. It is used to warn people buying goods that they may not be able to get compensation if the goods they buy are faulty.

CHAPS: This stands for Clearing House Automated Payments System. It is a computer system which allows payments to be made electronically. The payment goes from the paying bank to the receiving bank on the same day.

Chargeable asset: This is an asset on which capital gains tax may have to be paid, if it is sold or disposed of.

Cheque card: This type of card is issued by a bank to a customer. It guarantees that a cheque used with the card will be paid if the person issuing the cheque has kept to all the conditions.

Company pension scheme: This is a pension scheme organised by the employer to provide pension benefits for the employees.

Consumer Credit Act: This act sets out the rules which lenders must follow when they lend amounts of £15,000 or less to consumers.

Contingent annuity: This is an annuity which is paid to someone when someone else dies.

Contingent liability: This is money which might be owed if a particular event happens.

Conversion: This is changing the type of bank account you have.

Conveyance: This is the name of the document which transfers the ownership of land.

Conveyancing: This is the name for carrying out all the actions needed to transfer the ownership of a piece of land.

Corporate body: This is a group of people acting together. The group has a separate legal identity to the individual members' identities. A company is an example of a corporate body.

Corporation tax: This is a tax companies pay on their profits.

Council Tax: This is a tax charged locally on private houses. It provides some of the money to run local councils.

Credit agreement: This is a written contract between a bank or other lender and a customer. The bank allows the customer to borrow money under the terms and conditions in the agreement.

Credit limit: This is the most a customer is allowed to borrow on their account.

Credit reference agency: This is an organisation which keeps records of people's credit agreements and how well they keep to them. Banks and other organisations use these agencies to check on people before lending them money.

Credit scoring: This is a way of working out the risk of not being repaid if money is lent. Points are awarded for the answers given by the potential borrower to a series of questions. A high score means that the risk of them not being able to repay is low.

Creditor: This is someone who is owed money.

Critical illness cover: This is a type of insurance cover which pays out if the policyholder gets a serious illness such as heart disease or cancer. Cum−dividend The A to Z of financial terms If a share is sold cum−dividend, the buyer will receive the dividend declared just before they bought the share.

Cumulative market capitalisation: This is the total market capitalisation of all the companies in the sector under review.

Data Protection Act: This act sets out the rules which an organisation has to follow when they store personal information about people.

Debenture: This is a document issued by a company which acknowledges that some or all of the company's assets are security for a debt (usually to a bank). It is also a name for certain long−term loans to companies.

Debtor: This is someone who owes money.

Deferred taxation: This is tax which is expected to be paid at some time in the future but is not due in the short term. Payment has usually been postponed because of tax relief.

Deposit account: This is a bank account in which money is saved. It normally pays interest on the money invested.

Deposit rate: This is the rate of interest customers earn on money they keep in a bank deposit account.

Depreciation provision: This is money set aside (or provided) in a set of accounts to reflect the drop in value of fixed assets caused by wear and tear, age and obsolescence (going out of date).

Direct debit: This is a payment out of a bank account which is arranged by the organisation which receives the money. Directors' report Every year, company directors have to prepare a report for the company's members, to explain what the company has been doing and their plans for the future.

Disposal: This happens when something is sold, transferred or given away.

Domiciled: This means permanently based in a country.

Drawer: This is the person or organisation which has drawn a cheque.

Excess: This is the amount by which someone has gone over their agreed overdraft facility. It is also the first amount of any claim an insurance policyholder has agreed to pay.

Exchange equalisation account: This is an account kept by the Bank of England. It holds the United Kingdom's foreign exchange and gold reserves.

Execute: This means to carry out a contract.

Executor: This is a man appointed in a will to deal with the estate, according to the wishes set out in that will.

Executrix: This is a female appointed in a will to deal with the estate, according to the wishes set out in the will.

Facility: This is the agreed amount that a bank will allow a customer to borrow up to.

Financial statement: This is a statement which includes the annual accounts, directors' report and so on.

Financial year: This is the year covered by a set of annual financial statements.

Fiscal: This word is used to describe finances controlled by the Government.

Fixed interest rate: This is an interest rate which does not change during the life of a loan.

Forbearance: This is when one party to an agreement does not pursue their rights even though another party to the agreement has not kept to the agreement's terms.

Force majeure: This is an event which cannot be controlled and which stops duties, under an agreement, being carried out.

Foreign exchange: This is the term for foreign currencies which are bought and sold. The markets for buying and selling the foreign currencies are called foreign exchange markets.

Franked investment income: This stands for free−standingadditional voluntary contribution. If someone is in an employer's scheme, which is not contracted out of SERPS, they can contract out themselves and pay into a free−standing additional voluntary contribution scheme (FSAVC).

Gross domestic product: This is the value of goods and services produced by an economy over a particular time period.

Gross interest: This is interest which has not had any income tax taken out of it.

Guaranteed minimum pension: This is the lowest level of pension which must be paid to a pensioner, as a condition of contracting out of SERPS.

Headline rate: This term refers to information which is easy to publish but which may be over−simplified and, as a result, possibly inaccurate.

Hire purchase: This is a form of credit which allows the purchaser to have possession of the goods shown in the hire purchase agreement. Ownership passes to the purchaser when they have paid all the instalments and any fee.

Holding company: This is a company which controls another company, usually by owning more than half of its shares.

Hypothecation: This happens when a person gives a bank authority to sell goods which have been pledged as security for a loan.

Income and expenditure account: This account records an organisation's income and spending and shows the surplus or shortfall.

Income unit: This is a unit trust which pays out the income it earns to the investors, instead of reinvesting it.

Incorporation: This means forming a company. Some companies have limited liability. In other words, the members of the company are not personally liable for debts which the company runs up, as long as the company is run properly.

Independent financial adviser (IFA): This is a qualified person or firm that can give people independent advice on life insurance and pensions and is not tied to a particular company.

Indexation: This means making adjustments to allow for the effects of inflation.

Individual Savings Account (ISA): This is a savings account which was introduced 6 April 1999. The income earned by the money invested will be free of tax. In each tax year you can invest in: ¤ up to three different types of mini ISAs; or ¤ one maxi ISA.

Inflation: This is the name for general price increases.

Inheritance tax: This tax is charged on certain gifts, and on the value of the estate left by someone who has died.

Input tax: This is the value added tax you pay when you buy goods and services.

Inspector of taxes: This is a person who works for the Inland Revenue, dealing with tax returns and tax assessments. Tax inspectors check how much tax the taxpayers owe.

Intellectual property rights: This is the general name for rights such as copyrights and patents.

Intestacy: This happens when someone dies without leaving a will. Their estate is divided up between their relatives following the rules set by law.

Investment trust: This is a company which is quoted on the stock exchange and which invests in other companies.

ISA: This is an individual savings account. The interest earned from an ISA is free of tax.

Issued share capital: This is share capital which has been allocated to shareholders who have subscribed for (asked for) shares.

Joint lives last survivor: This sort of life insurance is on two people's lives and pays out on the second death.

LAPR: This stands for life assurance premium relief. Before 14 March 1984 there was tax relief on life insurance premiums paid by policyholders for policies which qualified for tax relief. Policies which started before 14 March 1984 still qualified for tax relief on the premiums paid since 14 March 1984.

Letter of credit: This is a letter one bank sends to a second bank asking them to pay money to a named person. However, certain conditions must be met.

Lien: This type of policy is a contract between the policyholder and the insurance company. The insurance company will normally pay out if the policyholder dies.

Life assured: This is the person whose life is assured.

Limited company: This type of company limits how much its members will have to pay if the company is wound up. The members of most limited companies will only have to pay any money unpaid on their shares. If a company limited by guarantee is wound up, the money its members have to pay is limited to the amount shown in the memorandum.

Liquidation: This is the process of winding up a company by paying its creditors and distributing any money left among the members.

Merchant bank: This is a specialist bank which deals in foreign exchange and advises large companies on mergers, takeovers, raising capital and so on. Middle−band earnings These are earnings between lower−band earnings and upper−band earnings.

MIRAS: This stands for mortgage interest tax relief at source. It was income tax relief on mortgage interest paid (up to the limit allowed), and the mortgage repayments were reduced to allow for it.

Negotiable instrument: This is a document which : ¤ is signed; ¤ is an instruction to pay an amount of money; ¤ can have its ownership changed by changing the name it is paid to; or ¤ can have its ownership changed simply by being delivered to its new owner.

Net book value: This is what an asset cost, as recorded in the books of account, less all the depreciation taken off the asset for age and wear.

Net interest: This is interest which has had income tax taken off it. The A to Z of financial terms

Net profit: This is the profit left after all overheads have been taken off.

Occupational pension scheme: This is a pension scheme organised by an employer to provide pension benefits for employees.

Offer price: This is how much people have to pay for each unit when investing in unit trusts.

Official receiver: This is a person appointed to act as a receiver in bankruptcies and company winding−up cases. The Department of Trade and Industry appoints official receivers. Open ended investment companies (OEICs) An OEIC is a type of unit trust but there is no difference between the bid price and the offer price. In other words the buying price and the selling price is always the same.

Output tax: This is the value added tax (VAT) charged by a business registered for VAT, on the goods and services it sells.

Overdraft facility: This is the money paid on shares allotted to the members.

Payee: This is the person money is being paid to. The A to Z of financial terms

Payment protection insurance: This insurance covers people's finance agreement repayments if they cannot work because of long−term illness or redundancy.

Pension mortgage: This is a mortgage which will be repaid out of the lump sum from a pension policy or retirement annuity.

Pensionable age: This is the age people have to reach to be entitled to draw their state pension.

PEP: This stood for personal equity plan. It was a way of investing in stocks and shares through a Government scheme.

Permanent assurance: This is life assurance cover on someone for the rest of their life.

Permanent health insurance: This is a type of insurance policy which pays an income if the policyholder suffers from a long−term illness or disability.

Personal guarantee: This is a pledge by a person to a bank to repay a debt if the bank's customer fails to pay it.

PIN: This stands for personal identification number. It is a secret number given to an account holder to be used when they put their credit card or cash card into an automatic teller machine (ATM). If the number they use is correct, they will be allowed access to their account.

Premium: This is the money the policyholder pays to the insurance company in return for the cover set out in the insurance policy.

Principal activity: This is a company's main trading activity.

Pro rata: This means in proportion to. For example, if ten items cost £100, you would expect three items to cost £30, if they were pro rata.

Promissory note: This is a written promise to pay an amount of money to someone at a given time or on demand.

Proxy: This is a person appointed by a shareholder to go to a meeting of shareholders. The proxy can vote at the meeting for the shareholder.

Public liability: This is a type of insurance cover to protect people and businesses from claims made by members of the public.

Put option: This is a right to sell foreign currency at a particular exchange rate.

Qualifying policy: This is a policy which can pay its proceeds, free of tax, if the conditions have been met.

Real property: This is land and rights over land (such as an easement). The A to Z of financial terms

Related party: This is someone, or an organisation, which controls or significantly influences another organisation.

Remedy: This is using the law to get compensation for damage done or for rights infringed. A remedy is also using the law to prevent something from happening.

Rentcharge: This is the name for a charge to use land such as a chief rent but it does not include tenancies and leases.

Rights issue: This is an issue of extra shares by a company. Existing shareholders can buy extra new shares in proportion to the shares they already hold. The shares are usually on sale at a price lower than the stock−market price to encourage shareholders to buy. The shareholders can sell the rights if they do not wish to use them.

Security: This is something of value which is pledged to a bank by a borrower. If the borrower fails to repay the debt, the bank can sell the security and repay the debt out of the proceeds of the sale.

Securities: This is a system for taxpayers to work out the tax they have to pay. However, if they send their tax returns to the Inland Revenue in good time, the Inland Revenue will do the calculations.

Share certificate: This document certifies who owns shares in a company. It gives the type and number of shares owned by the shareholder and lists the serial numbers of the shares.

Spot rate: This is the exchange rate for foreign−exchange transactions which are being done straightaway.

Standard & Poors: This organisation rates companies according to their financial strength.

Standing order: This is an instruction by a bank's customer to the bank, to pay an amount of money regularly to another bank account. State earnings related pension scheme (SERPS) People working for an employer can earn this extra state pension. They pay extra national insurance as their earnings rise above a lower limit and some of this extra national insurance is for the increased pension.

Statistical sampling: This involves the randomly choosing of items to be tested, and then using probabilities (the likelihood of things happening) to decide the acceptable rate of error for the test to be treated as successful.

Statutory audit: This is called a statutory audit. The A to Z of financial terms

Stock in trade: This is the term for goods bought but which have not yet been sold.

Superannuation: This is a regular contribution to a pension scheme by an employee.

Surcharge: This is an extra charge banks make if a customer does not keep to their agreement with the bank. The A to Z of financial terms It is also a penalty charged if tax is not paid on time.

Tax voucher: This is the same as a dividend warrant.

Taxable supply: This is a term for supplying of goods and services on which value added tax can be charged. This applies even if the tax rate is 0% at present, because it can be increased if the Government chooses to.

Teeming and lading: This is a term used to describe attempts to hide the loss of cash received from one customer by using cash from another customer or customers to replace it. It also involves using other customers' money in the same way, and so on.

Term: This is life insurance cover for a fixed period of time.

Term deposit: This is money deposited with a bank for a fixed period of time.

TESSA: This stands for Tax Exempt Special Savings Account. It is a special savings account with banks, building societies and so on and the interest is free of tax if you keep to any rules about withdrawals.

Transferee: This is the person something is transferred to.

Transferor: This is the person who transfers something to someone else.

Treasury bill: This is an unconditional written promise by the Treasury to repay money it has borrowed for the short term, to pay for the Government's spending.

Trust deed: This is a legal document which is used to: • ¤ create a trust; ¤ change a trust; or ¤ control a trust.

Uncleared cheque: This is a cheque which has been paid into an account, but the payment for it has not yet been collected from the bank the cheque which will pay the cheque.

Unincorporated body: This is a group of people acting together but who do not form a separate legal body (such as a company). Unit−linked Some investment policies, such as endowment policies, are used to invest in unit trusts. These are called unit−linked life assurance policies.

Unitised: This term describes investors joining together to buy units in a fund such as a unit trust.

Unlimited company: This type of company does not limit what its members would have to pay towards the company's debts, if the company was wound up.

Unpaid item: This is an item such as a cheque, standing order or direct debit which a bank refuses to pay.

Unpresented cheque: This is a cheque which has been sent, but which has not yet appeared on the bank account which will pay it.

Unsanctioned overdraft: This is an overdraft which has been run up without the bank's permission.

Upper earnings limit: This is the highest amount of earnings on which employees pay national insurance. The A to Z of financial terms

Valuation point: This is the date and time when the fund manager revalues the investments in a fund, such as a unit trust.

Warrant: This is life assurance cover which lasts the lifetime of the person whose life is assured.

Winding up: This means: ¤ that the rate of interest is 0%; or ¤ that the VAT rate is 0%. (But it could be raised from this level, if the Government wished to, without fresh legislation being needed.) The A to Z of financial terms Zero−rate does not mean the same as exempt. If something is exempt from tax, no tax can be charged on it, unless the law is changed.

================================================================================

Annual percentage rate (APR): the interest rate charged, expressed as a percent per year, for the use of credit

Assets: possessions that have economic value (some of which may provide an economic and/or financial return)

ATM: automated teller machine; an ATM allows bank customers to deposit and withdraw money without the direct assistance of a bank employee.

Bank: a company chartered by state or federal government to offer numerous financial services, such as checking and

savings accounts, loans and safe: deposit boxes; the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insures accounts in federally chartered banks and most state- chartered banks.

Bond: a certificate of indebtedness issued by a government or a company, promising to repay borrowed funds to the lender at a fixed rate of interest and at predetermined intervals

Borrower: an individual, business or government that has received and used something belonging to somebody else, with the intention of returning or repaying it - often with interest in the case of borrowed Money

Budget: a plan to manage income, spending and saving

Capital gains: a profit realized from the sale of property, stocks or other investments

Cash: money in the form of paper currency or coins

Adapted from: Financing Your Future. Council for Economic Ed sic Financial Terms

Cashier's check: a form of check bought for a specific amount and paid to a person or firm named on the check. People pay a fee for a cashier's check. A cashier's check c annot bounce because full payment is needed prior to a cashier's check being issued.

Certificate of deposit (CD): a certificate issued by a bank to a person depositing money in an account for a specified period of time. A penalty is charged for early withdrawal from most CD accounts.

Check: a written order to a financial institution directing the financial institution to pay a stated amount of money, as instructed, from the customer's Account

Checking account: a financial account into which people deposit money and from which they withdraw money by writing checks or using debit or ATM cards

Compound interest: a situation in which interest is earned on previously earned interest in such a way that earnings accumulate more rapidly over time

Credit: borrowing to buy something with the promise to make payment at a later time

Credit card: a small, specially coded plastic card issued by a bank, business, etc., authorizing the cardholder to purchase goods and services on credit. Credit cards allow users to borrow funds (that must be repaid) that the user does not currently have.

Credit report: a written record collected by a credit agency that tracks a borrower's credit payments, whether or not these ducation, 2017. DVD. Glossary of Bas payments are made on a timely basis, and how long the borrower has had various credit accounts .

Credit union: not-for-profit cooperatives of members with some type of common bond (e.g., employer) that provide a wide array of financial services, often at a lower cost than commercial banks

Debit card: a small, specially coded plastic card issued by a bank; allows the cardholder to transfer funds electronically and immediately from his or her checking account, as if the cardholder were writing a check to pay for a purchase. A debit card is different from a credit card in that debit card users are limited to accessing only the available balances in their deposit accounts. Credit cards allow users to borrow funds that must be repaid.

Diversify: to invest in a variety of financial assets, such as stocks, bonds, money market accounts, etc., in order to reduce the overall risk of financial investment

Dividend: a payment of apportion of a company's net profits which is periodically made to stockholders

Expenses: payments for goods and services

FICO score: a mathematical model that assesses a person's reliability in repaying borrowed funds

Finance charges: the interest paid on unpaid credit balances

Financial institutions: intermediaries that help channel funds from savers to borrowers

Financial literacy: basic financial knowledge, including an understanding of banks and the banking system, financial markets, credit and credit cards, and tax laws, as well as the ability to apply this knowledge in making decisions on how to spend, earn, or save money today to build wealth for tomorrow

Fixed expenses: expenses that are the same every month

Grace period: the amount of time one has to pay a line of credit before there is a finance charge

Human capital: the knowledge, skills, abilities and talents that people acquire through experience, training and education that help workers produce goods and services and help determine their income- producing capacity

Income: earnings that result from providing resources in the market place

Inflation risk: the chance that the rate of inflation will exceed the rate of return on an investment; also, the risk that future earnings will have reduced purchasing power because of an increase in average prices

Installment plan: a closed-end loan for a specific product such as furniture or appliances

Interest: the price associated with using someone else's money. Banks pay savers interest to encourage them to make deposits. Banks charge interest to borrowers, who pay this interest as a cost of using someone else's money. In general, banks earn profits when the interest payments made on loans are ducation, 2017. DVD. Glossary of Basic larger than the interest used to attract savers to make deposits.

Lender: one who lends; may be an individual, a business or a government

Liabilities: things that are owed; financial obligations that must be paid. Debt is a common household liability.

Liquidity: the ease with which a financial asset can be turned into cash. O f Terms

Liquidity risk: the chance that an investor will find it difficult to turn an investment into cash (by trying to sell a house, for example, in a real estate market that is slow)

Long: term goal – a goal that a person or organization plans to achieve more than five years in the future

Medium: term goal – a goal that a person or organization plans to achieve in one to five years

Minimum payment: the smallest amount a person is required to pay in a given month

on an open: ended credit account

Money market account: an interest- bearing account that offers limited check- writing privileges. Deposits may be added at any time; some money market accounts limit the withdrawals depositors may make without paying a penalty. Money market

accounts are low: risk investments that serve as a cross between saving and checking accounts. Money market accounts offered within the banking system are known as money market deposit accounts. Money market accounts offered by mutual funds are known as money market mutual funds.

Money order: a form of payment that a person can buy for a specific amount and sign over to the person or firm named on the money order. People must pay a fee to obtain a money order. A money order cannot bounce because full payment is needed before the money order is issued.

Mutual fund: a pool of funds used by a financial services company to purchase a variety of stocks, bonds or money market instruments. A mutual fund provides diversification and is professionally managed by investment professionals.

Net income: the amount of income left after taxes have been paid

Net worth: a person's assets, or what a person owns, minus a person's liabilities, or what a person owes

Open: ended credit – a form of credit that allows a person to borrow funds to make purchases for which there is no predetermined repayment period

Opportunity cost: the highest-valued alternative that is given up when a choice is made not regularly

Productive resources: factors used to produce a good or service (natural resources or land, human resources, human capital and capital goods)

Problem: solving model – also known as the

making: identify the problem, list the alternatives, list the criteria upon which the decision will be based, evaluate the alternatives using the criteria, make a decision ducation, 2017. DVD. Glossary of Basic

Rate of return: earnings from a financial investment, stated as a percentage of the amount invested; usually calculated on an annual basis

Return: earnings from an investment, usually expressed as an annual percentage rate

Revolving credit: an open-ended account with a limit to how much can be borrowed but no time limit for repayment

Risk: the chance of experiencing a financial loss

Rule of 72: offers a simple way to determine how long it will take for a principal value to double in size. Divide the a nnual expected interest rate into 72 to know the approximate number of years it will take for the principal to double.

Saving: income not spent on current consumption or taxes

Savings account: an interest-bearing deposit account at a banking establishment that is not typically used for transactions and has no maturity date

Scarcity: the condition that arises whenever limited resources are insufficient to provide for peoples' basically unlimited wants

Short: term goal – a goal that a person or organization plans to achieve in less than one year

Smart card: a plastic card, usually about the size of a credit card, which has been embedded with a microchip that manages

Spending: using income for current consumption

Stocks: shares of ownership in a corporation

Taxes: required payments to government

Trade: off – that which is given up to get something

Traveler's check: a form of check that can be used to obtain cash; the buyer of the traveler's check pays a specific dollar amount to acquire these checks, which are issued in standardized packets by a traveler's check issuer. The checks are written to a person or firm and signed by the person writing the check. Often these come with protection against loss or theft. Traveler's check issuers usually charge a fee when they sell these instruments.

Variable expenses: expenses that may change from week to week or from month to month ducation, 2017. DVD.

================================================================================

Account:  balancing set of general ledger codes in which cash and other financial resources, together with all related liabilities and residual equities or balances, and changes therein, are recorded and segregated for the purpose of carrying on specific activities or attaining certain objectives in accordance with special regulations, restrictions, or limitations. For reporting purposes, the state identifies major accounts, and administratively combines all remaining accounts into roll-up funds. Most accounts are set up in state law to isolate specific activities.

Account code or number:  character alpha/numeric code assigned by OFM to identify each account. (See the Fund Reference Manual.)

Accrual basis: The basis of accounting whereby revenues are recognized when they are earned and measurable regardless of when collected, and expenses are recorded on a matching basis when incurred. All proprietary and fiduciary funds use the accrual basis of accounting.

Accrued expenditures: Expenditures that meet the appropriate recognition criteria of the account type involved but have not been paid. Accrued expenditures are expected to be paid in a subsequent accounting period.

Accrued liabilities: Liabilities reflecting the obligation to pay for goods or services that have been incurred or received but not paid for by the end of the accounting period. Accrued liabilities related to refunds of revenue are offset to the revenue originally recorded.

Accrued revenues: Revenues that meet the appropriate recognition criteria of the fund type involved, but are not realized until a subsequent accounting period. Also refers to Accrual Basis and Modified Accrual Basis.

Acquisition: This type of project includes the acquisition of land, structures, and buildings. These are fixed assets that have no relationship to the addition or improvement to, or the repair or replacement of, existing fixed assets. Examples of an acquisition are purchase of a tract of land or purchase of a building.

Activity: An activity is something an organization does to accomplish its goals and objectives. An activity consumes resources and produces a product, service or result. One way to define activities is to consider how agency employees describe their jobs. What do you do? For whom? Why is it valuable? For the Activity Inventory, an agency’s work should be broken down into its discrete functions or services. 1

Addendum: A written or graphic instrument issued by the architect before execution of the construction contract that modifies or interprets the bidding documents by additions, deletions, clarifications, or corrections.

Additional services: Professional services that may, if authorized or confirmed in writing by the agency/institution, be rendered by the architect or other consultants in addition to the basic services identified in the owner-architect agreement.

See Form C: 100 (2014) Sections B3 and B4.

Additive alternate bid: An amount stated in the bid to be added to the amount of the base bid if the corresponding change in work, as described in the bidding documents, is accepted.

Allocation:  sum appropriation that is designated for expenditure by specific governmental units and/or for specific purposes, activities, or objects. For example, the sum appropriation to needed basis, or according to specified criteria.

Allotment: An agency’s plan of estimated expenditures, revenues, cash disbursements, and cash receipts for each month of the biennium.

Alternate financing: Proposals that cover a wide range of financial contracts that call for the development or use of space by state agencies through a contractual arrangement with a developer or financing entity. The sale of debt obligations, Certificates of Participation (COPs) through the State Treasurer may be involved, or financing may be offered by a private developer. Title to the property involved may transfer to the state either upon exercise of an option or at the termination of the contract.

Alternative analysis: Involves identifying different ways of meeting the functional requirements of the program including various construction solutions to a problem or whether to lease, buy, build, or use some other financing techniques. benefit or life- cycle costing analysis to determine comparable costs of alternatives.

Alternative public works: Refers to public works processes authorized under RCW 39.10 and includes General Contractor/Construction Manager (GC/

Appropriation: A legal authorization to make expenditures and incur obligations for specific purposes from a specific account over a specific time period. Appropriations typically limit expenditures to a specific amount and purpose within a fiscal year or biennial timeframe. Only the Legislature can make appropriations in Washington State. 2

Architect/engineer (A/E): A party to a contract to provide professional architectural and/or engineering design services to an agency or institution.

Artwork allowance: The cost of artwork for original construction of any building excluding storage sheds, warehouses, or buildings of a temporary nature, as provided in RCW 43.17.200. Universities and colleges must compute artwork allowances on the cost of original construction and on the cost of major renovation or remodeling work exceeding $200,000, as provided in RCW 28B.10.027.

Base bid: An offer to do construction work for payment, the acceptance of which constitutes a contract between the contractor who made the bid (the bidder) and the agency or institution who accepted it exclusive of adjustments for additive alternates. Also know as a proposal or a tender; often called a prime bid when made by a construction company that hopes to become the prime contractor, or a sub-bid when made by a company that hopes to become a subcontractor.

Basic design services: Architectural/Engineering (A/E) Basic Design Services consist of those services described in the Guidelines for Determining Architect/Engineer Fees for Public Works Building Projects in Washington State. These design services include normal architectural, structural, mechanical, electrical, and civil engineering services for the project.

Biennialization: Converting expenditures that occurred for only part of a biennium into the amount needed for a full biennium of implementation.

Biennium:  year fiscal period. The Washington state biennium runs from July 1 of an odd- numbered year to June 30 of the next odd-numbered year.

Bond: A debt instrument issued through a formal legal procedure and secured either by the pledge of specific properties or revenues or by the general credit of the state. Examples include bid bond, performance and payment bond.

Bow wave:  time.

Budget: A plan of financial operation embodying an estimate of proposed expenditures for a given period of time or purpose and the proposed means of financing them.

Budget Development System (BDS): An enterprise application developed as a tool to assist agencies in building all components of the decision package and submitting operating and transportation budget requests on line. The new Agency Budget System (ABS) replaced BDS in June of 2018.

Budget drivers: Caseload, economic, or demographic factors that have a significant effect on the state budget. Examples include inflation rate changes and state population changes in certain age groups. 3

Budget Evaluation Study Team (BEST) Study: Review of a project’s predesign study by an independent qualified multi-disciplined team using the value engineering methodology.

Budget notes: A legislative fiscal staff publication that summarizes the budget passed by the state Legislature. This publication is usually distributed a few months after the end of the legislative session. Budget notes provide guidance but are not legally binding.

Budgeted accounts: Accounts that are subject to the appropriation and/or allotment process.

Capital addition: An addition expands or extends an existing fixed asset. An example of an addition would be the construction of a new wing for a correctional institution. New construction attached to an existing structure as an extension is an addition. Generally, additions involve alterations within existing buildings to make connections.

Capital assets: Tangible or intangible assets held and used in state operations which have a service life of more than one year and meet the state’s capitalization policy. Capital assets of the state include land, infrastructure, improvements to land, buildings, leasehold improvements, vehicles, furnishings, equipment, collections, and all other tangible and intangible assets that are used in state operations.

Capital Budgeting System (CBS): An enterprise application that allows development and submittal of agency capital budget requests on line. term financing and expenditure plan for acquisition, construction, or improvement of capital assets such as land and buildings, and for programs that accomplish facility improvements. The capital budget is included in an appropriation bill for a specific biennium; the

Capital outlays: Expenditures for the acquisition of, addition to, or major repair of fixed assets intended to benefit future periods. In the operating budget, this label typically refers to equipment.

Cash disbursements: Cash disbursements are any moneys (e.g., checks, cash, warrants, credit or debit card amounts, or Electronic Fund Transfers (EFTs)) paid by the state during a period regardless of when the related obligations are incurred.

Cash receipts: Cash receipts are any moneys (e.g., checks, cash, warrants, credit or debit card amounts, or EFTs) received by the state during a period regardless of when the moneys are earned.

Certificate of Participation (COP): Alternative financing method authorized by the Legislature and administered by the State Treasurer. (COPs for equipment do not require legislative authorization.) A COP typically has a revenue stream to pay the debt service for the capital project. 4

Change order: A written authorization provided to a contractor approving a change from the original plans, specifications, or other contract documents, as well as a change in the cost. With the proper signatures, a change order is considered a legal document.

Collective bargaining: A mutual obligation of the state and of employees' exclusive bargaining representatives to meet at reasonable times and bargain in good faith in an effort to reach agreement on wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment as defined in RCW 41.80.

Commissioning and training: The process for achieving, verifying, and documenting that the performance of a building and its various systems meet design intent together with the owner and occupants operational needs. The process extends through all phases of a project, from initial concept to occupancy and operation, and includes the training of maintenance personnel.

Compensation impact model (CIM): A financial projection model used by the Office of Financial Management (OFM) to estimate the effect on state agency budgets of changes in salaries and benefit costs.

Construction document phase: The phase of the A/E's services in which the architect prepares the construction documents from the approved design development documents and assists the agency/institution in preparation of the bidding documents.

Construction management (CM):  consultant called a construction manager to coordinate and manage all of the construction trades. This additional management expertise is usually used on larger, more complex construction projects. However, an owner on a smaller project may retain a construction manager for that person’s construction expertise to act as the representative for the owner on the project.

Constructability review: The cost for an independent consultant or contractor to determine if a unique or unusual project can physically be built as designed. This is to reduce construction change orders and claims. This review should be conducted at 75 percent completion of the construction documents.

Consultant: An independent individual or entity contracting with an agency to perform a professional service or render an opinion or recommendation according to the consultant’s methods and without being subject to the control of the agency except as to the result of the work. The agency monitors progress under the contract and authorizes payment.

Contingency: The need for cost contingency is generated by a lack of information, at a particular point in time, for the task being estimated. Appropriate contingency amounts are dependent on the degree of risk present and the extent of the technical challenge surrounding the task. The design contingency legitimately covers uncertainties in a project and should be reduced through each phase of the design. Construction contingencies should be limited to 5 percent on new construction and 10 percent on remodeling work. Contingencies should not be considered as opportunities for extra work or to change original budget decisions. 5

Contract documents: The drawings, specifications, conditions, agreement, and other documents prepared by the designer that illustrate and describe the work of the construction contract and the terms and conditions under which it shall be done and paid.

Contractor: A person, firm or corporation who or which, in the pursuit of an independent business undertakes to, or offers to undertake, or submits a bid to, construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, or demolish, for another, any building, excavation or other structure, project, development, or improvement attached to real estate or to do any part thereof.

Cost/benefit analysis: An analysis in which consequences of the investment are measured in or converted to economic terms and qualitative benefits.

Cost estimate: The sum established by the agency/institution as available for the entire project, including the construction budget, acquisition costs, furnishings and equipment, compensation for professional services and all contingencies. The cost estimate is used to develop capital project budgets.

Cost estimating: An element of basic services in an architect/engineer (A/E) agreement that includes an estimate of construction cost from quantity surveys and unit costs of building elements for the project. Cost estimates shall include the elements of work to complete the project, all costs and fees and taxes necessary to complete the work, plus appropriate construction estimating contingencies to cover unidentified costs necessary to complete the project. Interactive cost estimating is additional work beyond basic services in which additional design alternatives are estimated. Independent cost estimating, if needed, covers cost estimates by an independent third party contracted with the owner and used to validate cost estimates prepared by the A/E.

Debt limit: Washington State’s legal restriction (RCW 39.42.132) on the amount that can be paid for debt service on bonds, notes, or other borrowed money. The Washington State Constitution (Article 8, Section 1(b)) mandates that payments of principal and interest in any fiscal year cannot exceed 9 percent of the arithmetic mean of general state revenues for the three preceding fiscal years. This debt limit of 9 percent of revenues is to be reduced in downward steps to 8 percent by July 1, 2034.

Debt service fund: A fund type established to account for the accumulation of resources for, and the payment of, general long-term obligation principal and interest.

Dedicated accounts: Accounts set up by law to receive revenue from a specific source and to be spent for a specific purpose.

Deferred maintenance: A backlog of activities that agencies deem necessary to bring facilities into good repair. Deferred maintenance is generally work that is left undone due to the lack of resources or perceived lower priority than projects funded. Failure to perform deferred work may 6

Design build: An alternative contracting method of project delivery subject to provisions in RCW 39.10 in which the agency/institution contracts directly with a single entity that is responsible for both design and construction services for a construction project. Design/code plan check (

ICBO): The cost for design document plan check that is performed by the International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) only when required by local code officials. This requirement should be identified in the permit review process.

Design development phase: The phase of the A/E's services in which the consultant prepares the design development documents, from the approved schematic design studies, for submission to the agency/institution for approval.

Design service contingency: Includes an allowance for uncertainty in scoping and pricing additional services, covers variability in estimating reimbursables, includes design fees for owner directed changes and includes design fees for changes during construction that are beyond the scope of basic services and are not a result of errors or omissions by the A/E. The total amount for design services contingency ranges from 5 to 10 percent of total consultant services cost depending on the complexity of the project.

Designer: A party to a contract to provide professional design services to an owner, often an architect or a professional engineer. Also, one (individual or corporate) who performs the design function in construction, as a package deal, a turnkey project, or a development management project.

Economic life: Economic life in the context of cost/benefit analysis refers to the span of years necessary to compare similar costs of operating and maintaining alternative solutions. It may not equate to the time required to fully depreciate the structure. The economic life span should be the same for each alternative for a project. The period of time, extending from the date of installation to the date of retirement for the intended service, over which a prudent owner expects to retain the property in order to obtain a minimum cost.

Efficiency measure: A measure that shows the relationship between inputs (dollars or FTEs) to output or outcome.

Energy life cycle cost analysis (LCCA) review: As required by RCW 39.35, the Department of Enterprise Services will review the Energy Conservation Report (ELCCA) for a project. The fee for this review shall not exceed $2,000 unless mutually agreed to.

Entitlement: A service or grant that, under state or federal law, must be provided to all eligible applicants.

Equipment: Tangible property other than land, buildings, improvements other than buildings, or infrastructure which is used in operations and with a useful life of more than one year. Examples are 7

ESCO: An ESCO is an energy service company that contracts with a facility owner or a utility to acquire, design, install, maintain and/or finance energy conservation, cogeneration or renewable energy projects. ESCO’s primarily develop, own and operate energy projects with no technical or financial risk to the facility owner or utility. The ESCO can guarantee the energy savings, utility payments, and overall cost of the project.

Expenditure authority: Permission for agencies to disburse moneys or accrue liabilities during specific fiscal periods, up to specified amounts, from specific accounts. Authority is provided by the Legislature, through appropriations or inclusion of nonappropriated account moneys in the legislative budget, and by the executive through allocations, approval of unanticipated receipts, or across-the-board spending reductions.

Expenditure authority code:  character code assigned by OFM to identify each legislative or executive authorization to incur expenditures. Agencies are to use only those expenditure authority codes that have been authorized in writing by OFM. The assigned codes are valid only for the biennium for which they are established.

Expenditure authority schedule: A listing prepared by OFM of all dollar appropriations (by agency and account) contained in legislation, along with an assigned code for use in allotment preparation and other accounting requirements.

Expenditure authority type: The designator that identifies the nature of the spending authority, such as state, federal, private/local. See SAAM 75.50.10.

Expenditures: Decreases in net current financial resources. Expenditures include disbursements and accruals for the current period. Encumbrances are not included.

Facility improvements: These include initial construction, punch-list items, retrofits, alterations, remodeling, renewals, tenant improvements, renovations, adaptations and code improvements for a facility.

Facility: A building or other structure with at least one wall and a roof.

Facility preservation: This is work that improves or restores the operational and service capacity to extend the useful life of a facility but does not significantly affect the programs and services housed within the facility. This work generally differs from ordinary maintenance in the extent and cost of the work undertaken. The distinction between ordinary maintenance and preservation is made for the purpose of segregating these types of projects by funding source, either operating or capital budget.

Fast track: A process in which certain portions of the A/E's design services overlap with construction activities in order to expedite the owner's early occupancy of all or a portion of the project. 8

Fee: A fee is a charge, fixed by law, for the benefit of a service or to cover the cost of a regulatory program or the costs of administering a program for which the fee payer benefits. For example, professional license fees which cover the cost of administering and regulating that category of professions are fees. Other charges that are categorized as fees include tolls and tuition. Fees must be authorized in statute. The Legislature may set the rates in statute or authorize a state agency to set rates using administrative procedures.

Fiscal note: A statement of the estimated fiscal impact of proposed legislation. This cost estimate is usually developed by the state agencies affected by the bill, and then approved and communicated to the Legislature by the Office of Financial Management.

Fiscal year: A 12-month fiscal period used for budget and accounting purposes. The Washington State fiscal year extends from July 1 through the next June 30 and is named for the calendar year in which it ends (e.g., July 1, 2014 - June 30, 2015 is state Fiscal Year 2015). The federal fiscal year runs October 1 through September 30. The city/county fiscal year runs January 1 through December 31.

Fixed assets: A fixed, physically attached, and permanent improvement or real property. Fixed assets are normally those that are capitalized. time equivalent (

As a unit of measure of state employees: refers to the equivalent of one person working full-time for one year (approximately 2,088 hours of paid staff time)

12 or higher education facilities: refers to the equivalent of one student attending class full-time for one school year (based on fixed hours of attendance, depending on grade level).

Fund: For state purposes, a fund is referred to as an account. Refer to Account.

Fund balance: The excess of the assets of an account over its liabilities and reserves. For governmental funds, fund balance represents the difference between fund assets (beginning balance and estimated revenues for the period) and fund liabilities (including reserves and appropriations for the period). purpose trust funds, and agency funds.

General contractor: The general contractor is a contractor whose business operations require the use of more than two unrelated building trades or crafts whose work the contractor shall superintend or do in whole or in part. A general contractor does not include an individual who does all work personally without employees or other specialty contractors as defined in this glossary. The terms general contractor and builder are synonymous. 9

General contractor/construction manager (GC/CM): A GC/CM is a firm with which an agency or institution has selected and negotiated a guaranteed maximum allowable construction cost for a project. cycle cost design considerations, value engineering, scheduling, cost estimating, constructability, alternative construction options for cost savings, and sequencing of work. The GC/CM acts as the construction manager and general contractor during the construction phase. The GC/CM process is considered an alternative contracting method and is subject to provisions in RCW 39.10.

General fund: A fund established to account for all financial resources and transactions except those required by law to be accounted for in specific dedicated accounts.

S): Refers to the basic account that receives revenue from Washington’s sales, property, business and occupation, and other general taxes and is spent for operations such as public schools, social services, and corrections.

General fund accounts: A group of accounts within the state's fund structure. These accounts within the General Fund are a grouping of accounts normally classified as Special Revenue Funds or Capital Projects Funds but which are considered a part of the total General Fund.

General obligation bonds: Statewide bond issues whose repayment is guaranteed by the full faith, credit, and taxing power of the state and that are subject to the state’s debt limit. General obligations bonds are the traditional form of government debt financing for major construction projects.

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP): Uniform minimum standards for financial accounting and reporting. They govern the form and content of the financial statements of an entity. GAAP encompass the conventions, rules, and procedures necessary to define accepted accounting practice at a particular time. They include not only broad guidelines of general application but also detailed practices and procedures.

Geotechnical investigation: The cost to do soils boring, sampling, testing, and prepare recommendations. The soil boring and sampling process, together with associated laboratory tests are necessary to establish subsurface profiles and the relative strengths, compressibility and other characteristics of the various strata encountered within depths likely to have an influence on the design of the project.

GMAP: Government Management, Accountability, and Performance was a management initiative focused on improving the results of state government. Agency directors reported in regular meetings with the Governor on the most important management and policy challenges. Reports focused on performance in measurable terms. GMAP was closed out April 24, 2013 to transition to Results Washington.

Goals: Broad, high-level, issue-oriented statements of an organization's desired future direction or desired state. 10

There are five types of governmental funds: General Fund, Special Revenue funds, Capital Projects funds, Debt Service funds, and Permanent funds.

Grant: Awards of financial assistance, including cooperative agreements, in the form of money or property in lieu of money to an eligible grantee. Capital grants are restricted for the acquisition, constructions, or renovation of capital assets associated with a specific program. Operating grants support all or a portion of current operating expenses within a certain program.

HVAC balancing: The cost to test and balance designed heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems, including water flows, at the completion of construction.

Improvement: A legal term referring to anything erected on and affixed to land (e.g., buildings, roads, fences, and services), which legally becomes part of the land, according to common law and statutory definition.

Incremental budgeting: Any budget development approach that focuses on incremental changes to a previous spending level or other defined expenditure base.

Information technology: Equipment, software, services, and products used in processing information, office automation, and telecommunications (voice, data, and/or video).

Information technology portfolio: The planning and management process for information technology resources and investments overseen by the Office of the Chief Information Officer.

Its primary requirements are: an expenditure limit based on inflation and population growth (applicable to state General Fund expenditures only); an emergency reserve account for any

Inspection (on site): The examination of work completed or in progress to determine its conformance with the requirements of the contract documents.

Internal service fund: A fund type used to report activities that provide goods or services to other funds, departments, or agencies of the state on a cost reimbursement basis. Internal service funds are used where the state is the predominate participant in the activity.

Lean: Lean is a systematic approach to improving value to customers by eliminating waste. The focus is on the customer and the work steps (or “value stream”) that create products or services for customers. Lean thinking, tools, and techniques offer an opportunity to streamline business processes to save time, effort and money that can be better used on what customers value most.

Lease purchase and lease development: Lease purchase and lease development agreements are forms of financing contracts that enable a building to be built or substantially remodeled to state specifications by a private developer. In both cases, the developer finances the project and recovers the cost through least payments. By the end of the lease period, the state may exercise the option to purchase at a predetermined price. There is no tax exemption for the developer, and market interest rates prevail. development proposals should be requested through the operating budget. For reference, see RCW 39.94, Financing Contracts.

Lease: Leases are contracts entered into by the state which provide for the use and purchase of real or personal property, and provide for payment by the state through the operating budget. All financing contracts must be approved by the state Finance Committee. A lease must have the approval of OFM if it is for space under development or has an obligation of over $1 million annually, regardless of the length of the lease obligation.

LEEDTM (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design):  in-class building strategies and practices. RCW 39.35 owned buildings over 5,000 square feet and renovations to state-owned buildings when the cost is greater than 50 percent of the assessed value of the building shall be designed and built to a minimum LEEDTM Silver Standard.

Life cycle cost analysis:  cycle cost of a facility project. cycle cost analysis is defined as the programmatic and technical considerations of all cost elements associated with capital facility alternatives under consideration. These cost elements may include any or all of the following: Capital Investment Costs, Lease Costs, Financial Costs, Operations Costs, Maintenance Costs, Alternations Costs, Replacement Costs, Denial of Use Costs, Lost Revenue, and Associated Costs.

Local accounts: Accounts under the control of an agency with cash on deposit in a local bank account and requiring the signature of agency officials on a check for disbursement. Some local funds are on deposit with the State Treasurer as a matter of convenience or statutory requirement. 12 term lease of more than ten years can be negotiated by DES and must be approved by OFM. Any lease over 20 years in duration must have legislative authorization. Contact OFM Facilities Oversight for more information on this subject.

Capital projects that cost $5 million or more, or projects that meet the following criteria: have particularly costly elements, are undertaken on a tight design budget or short design schedule, have significant policy implications to a program, or involve state of the art technology.

Major lease project: A lease project for any facility over 20,000 square feet.

Maintenance level: A projected expenditure level representing the estimated cost of providing currently authorized services in the ensuing biennium. It is calculated using current appropriations, the bow wave of legislative intentions assumed in existing appropriations (costs or savings), and adjustments for trends in entitlement caseload/enrollment and other mandatory expenses. This number establishes a theoretical base from which changes are made to create a new budget.

Maximum allowable construction cost (MACC): A cost that the owner stipulates to the design consultant before design begins. The cost is the owner’s budget for the construction cost of the project and serves as the parameter in which the design consultant agrees that the construction cost of the design will not exceed.

Modified accrual basis: The basis of accounting under which expenditures, whether paid or unpaid, are formally recognized when the liability is incurred against the account, but revenues are recognized only when they become both measurable and available to finance expenditures of the current accounting period. All governmental funds use the modified accrual basis of accounting.

State: Accounts related to the state General Fund as defined in RCW 43.88.055; includes the Washington Opportunity Pathways Account and Education Legacy Trust Account.

Nonappropriated funds: Moneys that can be expended without legislative appropriation. Only funds in accounts specifically established in state law as being exempt from appropriation fall into this category. Nonappropriated accounts can be either budgeted (and subject to OFM allotment approval) or nonbudgeted.

Nonbudgeted accounts: Accounts that are not subject to either the appropriation or the allotment process.

As used in the context of use of bond/COP proceeds to pay the costs of facilities expected to be owned or used by, or to make any loan or grant to: (a) the federal governmental purposes (including any federal department or agency), (b) any private nonprofit 13

Planned maintenance includes: scheduled repetitive work, such as housekeeping activities, grounds keeping, site maintenance, and certain types of service contracts; and periodic scheduled work (preventive maintenance) that has been planned to provide adjustment, cleaning, minor repair, and routine inspection of equipment to reduce service interruptions

Object of expenditure: A common grouping of expenditures made on the basis of homogenous activity, goods or services purchased, or type of resource to be used. Applies to the character of the article purchased or service obtained (rather than the purpose).

Objectives: Measurable targets that describe specific results a service or program is expected to accomplish within a given time period.

Official allotment: The statement of proposed expenditures defined in RCW 43.88.020 and referenced in RCW 43.88.110. This is the original allotment plus a limited number of revisions. The initial allotment can only be modified by legislative changes to the appropriation level, reductions ordered by the Governor due to a cash deficit, or approved quarterly adjustments. or part-time employee who represents the owner during construction and serves as a liaison between the architect and contractor on major projects.

Operating budget: A biennial plan for the revenues and expenditures necessary to support the administrative and service functions of state government.

Operations and service costs: The costs of the regular custodial care, utilities, refuse and recycling services, parking management, boiler operations, law enforcement and security, property management, visitor information, tour services, fire protection and life-safety services, including salaries of facility staff performing these tasks. Operations and maintenance (O&

M) costs: The costs of the regular custodial care and repair, annual maintenance contracts, utilities, maintenance contracts, and salaries of facility staff performing O&M tasks. The ordinary costs required for the upkeep of property and the restoration required when assets are damaged but not replaced. Items under O&M include the costs of inspecting and locating trouble areas, cleaning and preventive work, replacement of minor parts, power, labor, and materials. O&M work is required to preserve or restore buildings, grounds, utilities, and equipment to its intended running condition so that it can be effectively used for its intended purpose.

Operations and maintenance manuals: The assembly, tabulation, and indexing of all shop drawings and submittals on all equipment, controls, and systems so that required maintenance and troubleshooting can easily be shown and understood. 14

Outcome measure: A measure of the result of a service provided. This type of measure indicates the impact on the problem or issue the service or program was designed to achieve. Also known as results.

Outline specifications: An abbreviated set of specification requirements normally included early in the design process.

Output measure: An indicator of how much work has been completed. The number of units of a product of service produced or delivered.

Owner: The first party to the construction contract, who pays the contractor (the second party) for the construction work; also, the party who owns the rights to the land upon which the work is done and who, therefore, owns the work; also, the client of a designer, a construction manager, a project manager, or a development manager.

Performance bond: A bond issued by a surety company on behalf of a contractor to guarantee an owner proper performance of the construction contract.

Performance budgeting: The act of considering and making funding choices based on desired outcomes. Performance budgeting focuses on the results to be gained through investment decisions.

Performance measure: A quantitative indicator that can be used to determine whether an agency’s programs or services are directly contributing to the achievement or progress toward some objective. Activity performance measures reported in the budget should tell the story of whether the activity is achieving its purpose and contributes to statewide goals. These measures are most likely to be intermediate or immediate outcomes or output measures.

Phased construction: Construction in which design and production more or less overlap, thus shortening project time; usually practiced in construction management projects. See Fast Track.

Policy level: Incremental expenditures that may represent revised strategies or substantial differences in program direction and can include proposed program reductions. Examples can include discretionary workload expenditures necessary to address workload not defined as mandatory, new programs or changes in the level or scope of existing programs, or program reductions and other changes.

Predesign study: A report and process completed at the beginning of a project that clearly and accurately defines the need/problem to be addressed. The predesign study provides an analysis of alternatives and describes the selected alternative in detail with cost estimates. alone capital projects.

Predictive maintenance: A refinement to preventive maintenance that integrates scheduled maintenance with system monitoring and analysis (e.g., vibration analysis, thermal/energy analysis) to identify inefficient operation or imminent breakdown. Predictive maintenance ideally reduces the cost of maintaining components that are working adequately. 15

Preservation project: Projects that maintain and preserve existing state facilities and assets, and do not significantly change the program use of a facility. Examples would include roof replacement and exterior renovation, utility system upgrade, and repairing streets and parking lots.

Preventive maintenance: A maintenance strategy where inspections are made or actions are taken on a scheduled basis to reduce service interruptions, reduce the premature failure of facilities, systems, and equipment, and continue efficient operations. specified schedules established by manufacturer or facility manager.

Primary purpose: As used in defining a project type, the identification of the dominant driver behind the project; the area where the impact of not correcting the deficiency is most acute.

Priorities of government (POG): Washington’s adaptation of the "Price of Government" budget approach first developed by Peter Hutchinson and David Osborne. This form of budgeting focuses on statewide results and strategies as the criteria for purchasing decisions.

Program: Any of the major activities of an agency expressed as a primary function or organizational unit. Agencies may not alter their program structure without the explicit approval of the Legislature and OFM.

Program projects: Projects that are intended to accomplish a program goal such as changing or improving the use of existing space, or creating a new facility or asset through construction or purchase. These projects may have a major impact on future operating budgets − such as the construction of a new prison or university branch campus.

Programming: The work necessary to define the scope of a project, conduct master planning for future work, or delineate the existing conditions. This work may require field measurements or building systems testing and surveys.

Project delivery system: Method of how an owner plans to contract a project, i.e., design/bid/build, design/build, GC/CM, etc.

There are two types of proprietary funds: enterprise funds and internal service funds.

Example: “Up to $500,000 of the

Real property: Property that is fixed, immovable, and permanent. Real property includes land, structures affixed to the land, property affixed to the structures, and in some cases, trees etc., growing on the land. 16

Reappropriation: Capital budget appropriation that reauthorizes the unexpended portion of previously appropriated funds. Because capital projects often overlap fiscal periods, it is necessary to reauthorize some expenditure authority to ensure project completion.

Receipts: Unless otherwise qualified, cash received during a fiscal year irrespective of when the monies are earned.

Record drawings: The revised drawings that truly reflect what was constructed including field verification.

Reimbursable expenses: Amounts expended for or on account of the project that, in accordance with the terms of the appropriate agreement, are to be reimbursed by the agency/institution such as telephone charges and travel expenses in accordance with state guidelines.

Reserve or fund balance: In budget terminology, the difference between budgeted resources and expenditures.

Reserved allotment status: The portion of expenditure authority not expected to be used because of circumstances such as the Governor’s across-the-board allotment reductions, technical corrections, or proviso compliance.

Results Washington: Results Washington combines the best aspects of previous performance management and performance budgeting efforts such as Government Management Accountability and Performance (GMAP) and Priorities of Government (POG) with a significantly expanded Lean initiative that will involve all state agencies.

Retainage: Those portions of cash amounts due to be paid to a contractor for work completed that are held back (retained) by the agency/institution and not paid until some later date; often at substantial completion or at final completion of the work, according to the terms and conditions of the contract and any relevant legal statue; as a security for proper performance of work and fulfillment of contractor’s requirements.

Revenues: Cash receipts and receivables of a governmental unit derived from taxes and other sources.

Reversion: Unused appropriation authority. If an agency does not spend all of its appropriation in the timeframe specified by the budget, the authorization to spend that dollar amount expires.

Revolving fund/account: An internal service fund established to carry out a cycle of operations. The amounts expended from the account are restored to the account from earnings from operations or by transfers from other accounts, so that the account is always intact. 17

Schedule of values:  to-month basis by the contractor to show the intended percentage of completed work by the construction trades. The schedule of values is the basis for the amount of the request for payment by the contractor.

Schematic design phase: The phase of the A/E's services in which the architect consults with the agency/institution to ascertain the requirements of the project and prepares schematic design studies consisting of drawings and other documents illustrating the scale and relationships of the project components for approval by the agency/institution. The A/E also submits a preliminary estimate of construction cost based on current area, volume, or other unit costs.

Site survey: The process of mapping the boundary, topographic, or utility features of a site, measuring an existing building, or analyzing a building for use of space.

Specifications: The major part of a project manual, but excluding the bidding documented, contract agreement, and the conditions of the contract; the written descriptions of items of work that complement the construction drawings.

Strategic plan:  term comprehensive plan that represents an integrated set of decisions and actions designed to ensure that the intended goals and objectives of an agency are met. The plan should answer: Where are we today? Where do we want to be? How do we intend to close the gap between where we are and where we want to be?

Strategies: Statements of the methods for achieving goals and objectives. term work and activities that an agency undertakes to achieve specific goals and objectives.

Subcontractor: A party to a subcontract who does trade work for a contractor (the other party), which work included under the prime contract between the same contractor and an owner; one who is defined as a subcontractor by the prime contract.

Subobject: A refined breakdown of object of expenditures relating to particular items or item categories.

Subprogram: A general term describing specific activities within an agency program.

Supplemental budget: Any legislative change to the original budget appropriations.

Testing: This is a technician's services in acquiring and testing samples of materials used in the project as required in the State Building Code, such as welds, concrete strength, or bearing capacity. This system enables agencies to develop allotment packets on line. It supports allotment development, management, review, reporting, and monitoring needs for state agencies, OFM, and the Legislature.

Treasury accounts: Accounts that have cash on deposit in and under the control of the State Treasurer and are disbursed by means of a warrant of electronic means. Treasury accounts are subject to appropriation unless specifically exempted. 18

Unallotted allotment status: Expenditure authority not specifically scheduled for expenditure, but expected to be allotted at a later time.

Unanticipated receipts: Revenue received which has not been appropriated by the Legislature. The Governor has the authority to approve the allotment of such money within the guidelines of the intent in which they were received and the statutory guidelines of RCW 43.79.270.

Uniformat: A system for classifying building products and systems by functional subsystem, e.g., substructure, superstructure, exterior closure, etc.

Useful life: An estimate of the total time that an asset is usable and in service.

Value engineering (VE): VE is a systematic, orderly approach to defining a facility's required function, verifying the need for the function, and creating alternatives for providing the function at minimum life-cycle cost. cycle cost to achieve the required function. solving system that emphasizes the reduction of cost while maintaining the required quality and performance of the facility. It is a technique that is applied in addition to the regular design process. It is required on all major projects.

VE participation and implementation: The extra fee to be paid to the A/E for participation in the required value engineering study and includes incremental costs to implement those changes identified by the study and requested by the owner. 19

================================================================================
