Absolute owner: This is the sole owner of a piece of property, such as a building, vehicle or piece of equipment.

Abstract of title: This is a document which summarises all the title deeds to a property such as a house. It is drawn up for the seller when a property is being sold.

Accrual rate: This is the rate by which a pension from an earnings−related occupational pension scheme builds up from one year to another. The rate is shown as a fraction or a percentage of the member's final yearly salary.

Accrued income security: This is a security (investment) which pays interest at regular intervals. When it is sold, interest may have built up and this interest will be paid to the new owner. Interest built up like this is called accrued interest.

Accumulation date: This is the date when income will be credited to a unit trust which reinvests its income (an accumulation unit), instead of paying the income out to the investors.

Ademption: This happens when someone is left something in a will, but the item no longer exists so cannot be bequeathed.

Administrator: This is someone who: • has been appointed to manage the affairs of a bankrupt business; or • has been appointed to manage the estate of someone who has died without leaving a will.

AER: This stands for annual equivalent rate. It is quoted by financial institutions, such as banks, to show how much the interest rate would be if the interest was worked out just once a year. It is intended to make it easier for people to judge how much interest they pay (or receive) when it is being worked out more than once a year. It is also intended to make it easier to compare different financial products.

Annual general meeting (AGM): This is the yearly meeting of the members of an organisation which must be held to meet legal conditions. The annual accounts are presented for approval at this meeting.

Annual management charge: This is a yearly charge made by the managers of unit trusts or investment trusts. It is usually a percentage of the value of the funds being managed.

APR: This stands for annual percentage rate. It is intended to give people a more accurate idea of how much they are being charged when they borrow money.

Arbitrage: This is borrowing money to lend out again at a higher rate of interest.

Arrangement fee: This is the fee that banks charge their customers for arranging an overdraft facility.

Assignment: This is the formal transfer of rights to something. For instance, a bank's customer may assign, to the bank, the right to receive the benefits from a life insurance policy to give the bank security for a loan.

Auditing standards: This is a report and opinion, by an independent person or firm, on an organisation's financial records.

Authorised share capital: This is the highest amount of share capital that a company can issue. The amount is set out in the company's memorandum of association. The A to Z of financial terms

Bailment: This involves transferring possession of goods from the owner to someone else. The ownership of the goods is not transferred.

Barter: This is a way of paying for things, without using money, by exchanging goods. Basic−rate tax Once you have used up all your tax allowances and all your lower−rate tax band, you pay basic−rate tax. The basic rate is 22% at the moment (2000).

Basic state pension: This is the retirement pension the Government pays to people who have paid enough national insurance contributions. Some people may receive a reduced basic state pension because they have not paid enough contributions.

Beneficiary: This is someone who benefits from a will, a trust or a life insurance policy.

Bequest: This is the difference between the bid price and the offer price.

Bill of lading: This is a document recording the goods a ship carries and the terms the goods are carried under.

Bona vacantia: This means belonging to nobody.

Book value: This is the value of a fixed asset, such as a building or machine, as recorded in an organisation's books. It is usually the amount paid for the asset less an amount for depreciation.

Buying charge: This is the charge made when you first invest in a fund such as an ISA, OEIC or unit trust.

Cancelled from inception (CFI): This phrase refers to a contract for an investment product (such as a personal pension) which has been cancelled within the 'cooling−off' period.

Capital gains tax: This is a tax charged on certain capital gains.

Capital receipt: This is money received from selling fixed assets, such as buildings or machines. The A to Z of financial terms

Capital Transfer Tax (CTT): This was introduced in the 1970s to tax money and assets given away by people during their lifetime, as well as on the estates of people who died. Its name was later changed to inheritance tax.

Card: This is the plastic credit card or cash card which banks give their customers to use.

Cardholder: This is a bank customer who has been given a credit card or cash card.

Caveat emptor: This is a Latin expression which means 'buyer beware'. It is used to warn people buying goods that they may not be able to get compensation if the goods they buy are faulty.

CHAPS: This stands for Clearing House Automated Payments System. It is a computer system which allows payments to be made electronically. The payment goes from the paying bank to the receiving bank on the same day.

Chargeable asset: This is an asset on which capital gains tax may have to be paid, if it is sold or disposed of.

Cheque card: This type of card is issued by a bank to a customer. It guarantees that a cheque used with the card will be paid if the person issuing the cheque has kept to all the conditions.

Company pension scheme: This is a pension scheme organised by the employer to provide pension benefits for the employees.

Consumer Credit Act: This act sets out the rules which lenders must follow when they lend amounts of £15,000 or less to consumers.

Contingent annuity: This is an annuity which is paid to someone when someone else dies.

Contingent liability: This is money which might be owed if a particular event happens.

Conversion: This is changing the type of bank account you have.

Conveyance: This is the name of the document which transfers the ownership of land.

Conveyancing: This is the name for carrying out all the actions needed to transfer the ownership of a piece of land.

Corporate body: This is a group of people acting together. The group has a separate legal identity to the individual members' identities. A company is an example of a corporate body.

Corporation tax: This is a tax companies pay on their profits.

Council Tax: This is a tax charged locally on private houses. It provides some of the money to run local councils.

Credit agreement: This is a written contract between a bank or other lender and a customer. The bank allows the customer to borrow money under the terms and conditions in the agreement.

Credit limit: This is the most a customer is allowed to borrow on their account.

Credit reference agency: This is an organisation which keeps records of people's credit agreements and how well they keep to them. Banks and other organisations use these agencies to check on people before lending them money.

Credit scoring: This is a way of working out the risk of not being repaid if money is lent. Points are awarded for the answers given by the potential borrower to a series of questions. A high score means that the risk of them not being able to repay is low.

Creditor: This is someone who is owed money.

Critical illness cover: This is a type of insurance cover which pays out if the policyholder gets a serious illness such as heart disease or cancer. Cum−dividend The A to Z of financial terms If a share is sold cum−dividend, the buyer will receive the dividend declared just before they bought the share.

Cumulative market capitalisation: This is the total market capitalisation of all the companies in the sector under review.

Data Protection Act: This act sets out the rules which an organisation has to follow when they store personal information about people.

Debenture: This is a document issued by a company which acknowledges that some or all of the company's assets are security for a debt (usually to a bank). It is also a name for certain long−term loans to companies.

Debtor: This is someone who owes money.

Deferred taxation: This is tax which is expected to be paid at some time in the future but is not due in the short term. Payment has usually been postponed because of tax relief.

Deposit account: This is a bank account in which money is saved. It normally pays interest on the money invested.

Deposit rate: This is the rate of interest customers earn on money they keep in a bank deposit account.

Depreciation provision: This is money set aside (or provided) in a set of accounts to reflect the drop in value of fixed assets caused by wear and tear, age and obsolescence (going out of date).

Direct debit: This is a payment out of a bank account which is arranged by the organisation which receives the money. Directors' report Every year, company directors have to prepare a report for the company's members, to explain what the company has been doing and their plans for the future.

Disposal: This happens when something is sold, transferred or given away.

Domiciled: This means permanently based in a country.

Drawer: This is the person or organisation which has drawn a cheque.

Excess: This is the amount by which someone has gone over their agreed overdraft facility. It is also the first amount of any claim an insurance policyholder has agreed to pay.

Exchange equalisation account: This is an account kept by the Bank of England. It holds the United Kingdom's foreign exchange and gold reserves.

Execute: This means to carry out a contract.

Executor: This is a man appointed in a will to deal with the estate, according to the wishes set out in that will.

Executrix: This is a female appointed in a will to deal with the estate, according to the wishes set out in the will.

Facility: This is the agreed amount that a bank will allow a customer to borrow up to.

Financial statement: This is a statement which includes the annual accounts, directors' report and so on.

Financial year: This is the year covered by a set of annual financial statements.

Fiscal: This word is used to describe finances controlled by the Government.

Fixed interest rate: This is an interest rate which does not change during the life of a loan.

Forbearance: This is when one party to an agreement does not pursue their rights even though another party to the agreement has not kept to the agreement's terms.

Force majeure: This is an event which cannot be controlled and which stops duties, under an agreement, being carried out.

Foreign exchange: This is the term for foreign currencies which are bought and sold. The markets for buying and selling the foreign currencies are called foreign exchange markets.

Franked investment income: This stands for free−standingadditional voluntary contribution. If someone is in an employer's scheme, which is not contracted out of SERPS, they can contract out themselves and pay into a free−standing additional voluntary contribution scheme (FSAVC).

Gross domestic product: This is the value of goods and services produced by an economy over a particular time period.

Gross interest: This is interest which has not had any income tax taken out of it.

Guaranteed minimum pension: This is the lowest level of pension which must be paid to a pensioner, as a condition of contracting out of SERPS.

Headline rate: This term refers to information which is easy to publish but which may be over−simplified and, as a result, possibly inaccurate.

Hire purchase: This is a form of credit which allows the purchaser to have possession of the goods shown in the hire purchase agreement. Ownership passes to the purchaser when they have paid all the instalments and any fee.

Holding company: This is a company which controls another company, usually by owning more than half of its shares.

Hypothecation: This happens when a person gives a bank authority to sell goods which have been pledged as security for a loan.

Income and expenditure account: This account records an organisation's income and spending and shows the surplus or shortfall.

Income unit: This is a unit trust which pays out the income it earns to the investors, instead of reinvesting it.

Incorporation: This means forming a company. Some companies have limited liability. In other words, the members of the company are not personally liable for debts which the company runs up, as long as the company is run properly.

Independent financial adviser (IFA): This is a qualified person or firm that can give people independent advice on life insurance and pensions and is not tied to a particular company.

Indexation: This means making adjustments to allow for the effects of inflation.

Individual Savings Account (ISA): This is a savings account which was introduced 6 April 1999. The income earned by the money invested will be free of tax. In each tax year you can invest in: ¤ up to three different types of mini ISAs; or ¤ one maxi ISA.

Inflation: This is the name for general price increases.

Inheritance tax: This tax is charged on certain gifts, and on the value of the estate left by someone who has died.

Input tax: This is the value added tax you pay when you buy goods and services.

Inspector of taxes: This is a person who works for the Inland Revenue, dealing with tax returns and tax assessments. Tax inspectors check how much tax the taxpayers owe.

Intellectual property rights: This is the general name for rights such as copyrights and patents.

Intestacy: This happens when someone dies without leaving a will. Their estate is divided up between their relatives following the rules set by law.

Investment trust: This is a company which is quoted on the stock exchange and which invests in other companies.

ISA: This is an individual savings account. The interest earned from an ISA is free of tax.

Issued share capital: This is share capital which has been allocated to shareholders who have subscribed for (asked for) shares.

Joint lives last survivor: This sort of life insurance is on two people's lives and pays out on the second death.

LAPR: This stands for life assurance premium relief. Before 14 March 1984 there was tax relief on life insurance premiums paid by policyholders for policies which qualified for tax relief. Policies which started before 14 March 1984 still qualified for tax relief on the premiums paid since 14 March 1984.

Letter of credit: This is a letter one bank sends to a second bank asking them to pay money to a named person. However, certain conditions must be met.

Lien: This type of policy is a contract between the policyholder and the insurance company. The insurance company will normally pay out if the policyholder dies.

Life assured: This is the person whose life is assured.

Limited company: This type of company limits how much its members will have to pay if the company is wound up. The members of most limited companies will only have to pay any money unpaid on their shares. If a company limited by guarantee is wound up, the money its members have to pay is limited to the amount shown in the memorandum.

Liquidation: This is the process of winding up a company by paying its creditors and distributing any money left among the members.

Merchant bank: This is a specialist bank which deals in foreign exchange and advises large companies on mergers, takeovers, raising capital and so on. Middle−band earnings These are earnings between lower−band earnings and upper−band earnings.

MIRAS: This stands for mortgage interest tax relief at source. It was income tax relief on mortgage interest paid (up to the limit allowed), and the mortgage repayments were reduced to allow for it.

Negotiable instrument: This is a document which : ¤ is signed; ¤ is an instruction to pay an amount of money; ¤ can have its ownership changed by changing the name it is paid to; or ¤ can have its ownership changed simply by being delivered to its new owner.

Net book value: This is what an asset cost, as recorded in the books of account, less all the depreciation taken off the asset for age and wear.

Net interest: This is interest which has had income tax taken off it. The A to Z of financial terms

Net profit: This is the profit left after all overheads have been taken off.

Occupational pension scheme: This is a pension scheme organised by an employer to provide pension benefits for employees.

Offer price: This is how much people have to pay for each unit when investing in unit trusts.

Official receiver: This is a person appointed to act as a receiver in bankruptcies and company winding−up cases. The Department of Trade and Industry appoints official receivers. Open ended investment companies (OEICs) An OEIC is a type of unit trust but there is no difference between the bid price and the offer price. In other words the buying price and the selling price is always the same.

Output tax: This is the value added tax (VAT) charged by a business registered for VAT, on the goods and services it sells.

Overdraft facility: This is the money paid on shares allotted to the members.

Payee: This is the person money is being paid to. The A to Z of financial terms

Payment protection insurance: This insurance covers people's finance agreement repayments if they cannot work because of long−term illness or redundancy.

Pension mortgage: This is a mortgage which will be repaid out of the lump sum from a pension policy or retirement annuity.

Pensionable age: This is the age people have to reach to be entitled to draw their state pension.

PEP: This stood for personal equity plan. It was a way of investing in stocks and shares through a Government scheme.

Permanent assurance: This is life assurance cover on someone for the rest of their life.

Permanent health insurance: This is a type of insurance policy which pays an income if the policyholder suffers from a long−term illness or disability.

Personal guarantee: This is a pledge by a person to a bank to repay a debt if the bank's customer fails to pay it.

PIN: This stands for personal identification number. It is a secret number given to an account holder to be used when they put their credit card or cash card into an automatic teller machine (ATM). If the number they use is correct, they will be allowed access to their account.

Premium: This is the money the policyholder pays to the insurance company in return for the cover set out in the insurance policy.

Principal activity: This is a company's main trading activity.

Pro rata: This means in proportion to. For example, if ten items cost £100, you would expect three items to cost £30, if they were pro rata.

Promissory note: This is a written promise to pay an amount of money to someone at a given time or on demand.

Proxy: This is a person appointed by a shareholder to go to a meeting of shareholders. The proxy can vote at the meeting for the shareholder.

Public liability: This is a type of insurance cover to protect people and businesses from claims made by members of the public.

Put option: This is a right to sell foreign currency at a particular exchange rate.

Qualifying policy: This is a policy which can pay its proceeds, free of tax, if the conditions have been met.

Real property: This is land and rights over land (such as an easement). The A to Z of financial terms

Related party: This is someone, or an organisation, which controls or significantly influences another organisation.

Remedy: This is using the law to get compensation for damage done or for rights infringed. A remedy is also using the law to prevent something from happening.

Rentcharge: This is the name for a charge to use land such as a chief rent but it does not include tenancies and leases.

Rights issue: This is an issue of extra shares by a company. Existing shareholders can buy extra new shares in proportion to the shares they already hold. The shares are usually on sale at a price lower than the stock−market price to encourage shareholders to buy. The shareholders can sell the rights if they do not wish to use them.

Security: This is something of value which is pledged to a bank by a borrower. If the borrower fails to repay the debt, the bank can sell the security and repay the debt out of the proceeds of the sale.

Securities: This is a system for taxpayers to work out the tax they have to pay. However, if they send their tax returns to the Inland Revenue in good time, the Inland Revenue will do the calculations.

Share certificate: This document certifies who owns shares in a company. It gives the type and number of shares owned by the shareholder and lists the serial numbers of the shares.

Spot rate: This is the exchange rate for foreign−exchange transactions which are being done straightaway.

Standard & Poors: This organisation rates companies according to their financial strength.

Standing order: This is an instruction by a bank's customer to the bank, to pay an amount of money regularly to another bank account. State earnings related pension scheme (SERPS) People working for an employer can earn this extra state pension. They pay extra national insurance as their earnings rise above a lower limit and some of this extra national insurance is for the increased pension.

Statistical sampling: This involves the randomly choosing of items to be tested, and then using probabilities (the likelihood of things happening) to decide the acceptable rate of error for the test to be treated as successful.

Statutory audit: This is called a statutory audit. The A to Z of financial terms

Stock in trade: This is the term for goods bought but which have not yet been sold.

Superannuation: This is a regular contribution to a pension scheme by an employee.

Surcharge: This is an extra charge banks make if a customer does not keep to their agreement with the bank. The A to Z of financial terms It is also a penalty charged if tax is not paid on time.

Tax voucher: This is the same as a dividend warrant.

Taxable supply: This is a term for supplying of goods and services on which value added tax can be charged. This applies even if the tax rate is 0% at present, because it can be increased if the Government chooses to.

Teeming and lading: This is a term used to describe attempts to hide the loss of cash received from one customer by using cash from another customer or customers to replace it. It also involves using other customers' money in the same way, and so on.

Term: This is life insurance cover for a fixed period of time.

Term deposit: This is money deposited with a bank for a fixed period of time.

TESSA: This stands for Tax Exempt Special Savings Account. It is a special savings account with banks, building societies and so on and the interest is free of tax if you keep to any rules about withdrawals.

Transferee: This is the person something is transferred to.

Transferor: This is the person who transfers something to someone else.

Treasury bill: This is an unconditional written promise by the Treasury to repay money it has borrowed for the short term, to pay for the Government's spending.

Trust deed: This is a legal document which is used to: • ¤ create a trust; ¤ change a trust; or ¤ control a trust.

Uncleared cheque: This is a cheque which has been paid into an account, but the payment for it has not yet been collected from the bank the cheque which will pay the cheque.

Unincorporated body: This is a group of people acting together but who do not form a separate legal body (such as a company). Unit−linked Some investment policies, such as endowment policies, are used to invest in unit trusts. These are called unit−linked life assurance policies.

Unitised: This term describes investors joining together to buy units in a fund such as a unit trust.

Unlimited company: This type of company does not limit what its members would have to pay towards the company's debts, if the company was wound up.

Unpaid item: This is an item such as a cheque, standing order or direct debit which a bank refuses to pay.

Unpresented cheque: This is a cheque which has been sent, but which has not yet appeared on the bank account which will pay it.

Unsanctioned overdraft: This is an overdraft which has been run up without the bank's permission.

Upper earnings limit: This is the highest amount of earnings on which employees pay national insurance. The A to Z of financial terms

Valuation point: This is the date and time when the fund manager revalues the investments in a fund, such as a unit trust.

Warrant: This is life assurance cover which lasts the lifetime of the person whose life is assured.

Winding up: This means: ¤ that the rate of interest is 0%; or ¤ that the VAT rate is 0%. (But it could be raised from this level, if the Government wished to, without fresh legislation being needed.) The A to Z of financial terms Zero−rate does not mean the same as exempt. If something is exempt from tax, no tax can be charged on it, unless the law is changed.

